Scraping from https://kitsappublichealth.org/CommunityHealth/CoronaVirus.php


Scraping from https://kitsappublichealth.org/CommunityHealth/CoronaVirus.php









                                
                                Safe Start Plan
                      
                            












                                Kitsap County applied on June 19 to move from Phase 2 to Phase 3 of the state’s Safe Start plan for COVID-19 recovery. On July 2, Gov. Jay Inslee announced that all county Safe Start applications would be placed on pause for two weeks in response to increasing COVID-19 activity. 
                            

                            Kitsap County’s Phase 3 application is on pause until at least July 16. Kitsap remains in Phase 2.
View a "Kitsap County Safe Start Report Card" updated July 9

                                Check coronavirus.wa.gov and governor.wa.gov for updates. 
                            

SAFE START BUSINESS GUIDANCE
                          


                               To operate under Phase 3, businesses will need to develop a written safety plan and follow all available guidance.




                                            
                                          Safe Start Phase 3 Plan Template for Businesses 
                                           
                                        


Businesses authorized under Phase 2 are only allowed to reopen if they can implement the state guidance available for their industry.




                                            
                                           Governor’s Safe Start Resources 
                                           
                                        



                                            
                                            State Department of Health Guidance 
                                        
                                        

Workplace Safety Guidance 






Still have questions? Submit a question through the state COVID-19 Business and Worker Inquiries form or send an email to:KPHD-LOFR@kitsappublichealth.org. 

PREVENT THE SPREAD OF COVID-19
                          
While Kitsap has qualified to move forward under the Safe Start plan, it is important to know that COVID-19 is still present in our community. Regardless of what phase is in effect, Kitsap residents are urged to:


Maintain six feet of distance from others in public whenever possible.
Wear a cloth face covering in places where physical distancing can’t be maintained. Be compassionate to people who cannot wear face coverings.
Stay home when sick.
Wash hands frequently.
Clean and disinfect frequently used objects and surfaces.
Cover coughs and sneezes.


Read more prevention guidance. 










                                
                                What To Do If...  
                      
                            






You have confirmed or suspected COVID-19  
                                
                                

You were potentially exposed to someone with confirmed COVID-19
                                    
                                    


You have symptoms of COVID-19: Wa Dept. of Health
                                    
                                    













                                
                                Covid-19 Testing  
                      
                            









                           
                                People who have symptoms consistent with COVID-19 are encouraged to get tested for COVID-19, even if their symptoms are mild. Learn more about COVID-19 symptoms on the CDC’s website. 
                            
                            
                            


                            
                                Many Kitsap County health care organizations offer COVID-19 tests, with guidance from the state Department of Health. 
                            
                            
                            





STEPS TO GET TESTED
                          



                                    
                                    Call your regular health care provider to talk about your symptoms and getting tested.
                                
                                

                                    
                                    If you do not have a health care provider, you can become established with a provider or contact an urgent care clinic near you.
                                
                                

                                    
                                    If you do not have health insurance, visit our Health Insurance page for information about enrollment assistance. 
                                
                                



View a list of COVID-19 test providers in Kitsap County



Visit the state Department of Health’s website for more information about COVID-19 testing, including costs. 

WHY SHOULD I GET TESTED?
                          

Testing is an important tool in our response to the coronavirus pandemic. When someone is diagnosed with COVID-19, we help them take steps to avoid spreading the virus to others and notify people they have been in close contact with. Testing also provides data needed assess the level of illness in our community as we make progress toward recovery. 

WHAT TYPE OF TEST SHOULD I GET?
                          

If you have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been exposed to COVID-19, you should get a viral (PCR) test. Only a PCR test can confirm that you have COVID-19.  

WHAT ABOUT ANTIBODY (SEROLOGY) TESTING?
                          

Antibody tests (or serology tests) analyze a blood sample to determine if a person was exposed to a virus in the past. An antibody test cannot confirm if a person currently has COVID-19. 

More research is needed to understand if having antibodies to the virus that causes COVID-19 will protect someone from getting COVID-19 in the future, or how long that protection might last. A positive antibody test does not mean a person is immune to COVID-19.

Learn more about COVID-19 tests. 










                                
                                Staying Healthy During COVID-19 
                      
                            






We need to keep our community healthy and resilient as we work together to overcome the challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic. 


                                While many of us have had our regular routines disrupted, it is still important to stay on top of preventive care and treatment of chronic conditions. Skipping a wellness checkup or postponing an immunization could put your health or your family’s health at risk. Health care providers are working hard to ensure clinics and hospitals are safe for everyone to visit. 
        
                            




If you have lost income or health insurance during the pandemic, go to wahealthplanfinder.org to learn about health coverage options.

DON’T DELAY SEEKING EMERGENCY CARE 


                            
                            It is critical to immediately seek medical care if you or someone in your household is experiencing a health emergency. Our local hospitals have not been overwhelmed during the COVID-19 pandemic and people should not avoid seeking emergency care. 
                                
                            



                                Not sure when to go to call 911 or go to a hospital? The Washington State Department of Health has helpful tips.  

                            
                            



CALL 911 AT THE FIRST SIGN OF A HEART ATTACK OR STROKE


                            
                                If you experience symptoms of a heart attack or stroke, or witness the signs in another person, call 9–1–1. Learn more about the signs and symptoms from the American Heart Association.
                                
                            










                                
                                When to Wear Face Coverings
                            
                            








Effective June 26, a statewide order will require people to wear face coverings in indoor public spaces such as stores, offices and restaurants. The order will also require face coverings in outdoor settings where people cannot stay 6 feet apart.  


                                There are exemptions, including for people with certain disabilities or health conditions, people who are deaf or hard of hearing, and children under the age of 5 (though it's encouraged to have children ages 3-5 wear a covering if possible). Read more about the face covering requirement. 




Here are some important points to know about face coverings:

                            
                            



Face coverings are not a substitute for other protective measures. It is critical to stay home as much as possible, wash hands often, disinfect frequently used objects, and stay at least six feet from people outside your household. 
                                
                                

Avoid crowded areas whenever possible. Find a different place to go or come back another time unless your visit is absolutely essential. You are at risk of getting COVID-19 even if you are wearing a face covering..
                                
                                

Use cloth face coverings. Do not use medical masks or respirators.  You can make face coverings at home or purchase them. 
                                
                                

Some people cannot wear face coverings. Be kind to people around you who are not wearing face coverings. Focus on making good decisions for yourself and your family.
                                
                                

Face coverings should not be placed on children younger than 2. Older children should be supervised while wearing face coverings.
                                
                                

Face coverings help protect people around you.  Studies indicate face coverings are most effective for preventing the wearer from spreading respiratory droplets when they cough, sneeze, or talk. Face coverings are less effective for protecting the wearer from droplets spread by other people.
                                
                                



                                    
                                    MORE GUIDANCE:
                                    
                                


Washington State Department of Health guidance


Centers for Disease Control (CDC) guidance


Learn about making and donating face coverings












                                
                                COVID-19 Basics
                      
                            





                                
                                COVID-19 is an illness caused by a new type of coronavirus. Most people who have COVID-19 experience mild illness similar to a cold or flu.
                            
                            


                            
                                Some people are at higher risk for severe illness, including: 
                                
                            


People with certain health conditions
Older adults



                            
                                Visit the CDC’s website for information about risk groups and special guidance. 
                            
                            


                                
                                People with COVID-19 have experienced a wide range of symptoms. Symptoms can appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. COVID-19 symptoms include:
                            
                            



                                    
                                    Fever or chills
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Cough
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Fatigue
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Headache
                                
                                

                                    
                                    New loss of taste or smell
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Sore throat
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Congestion or runny nose
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Nausea or vomiting
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Diarrhea
                                
                                











                                
                                Printable Fact Sheets and Signs
                      
                            









Protect Your Health (English/Español)

                                




What is Contact Tracing?


                                




                                    
                                    Have Fun, Stay Healthy 
                                   

                                








                                    
                                    Printable COVID-19 Fact Sheet

                                





                                    Hoja informative de COVID-19

                                






                                    
                                    COVID-19 signs for businesses / signos para empresas
                                
                                


                                    These posters educate customers and staff on steps being taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19. 
                                
                                



                                        
                                        In English
                                    
                                    




 
                                    
                                        For grocery stores
                                    
                                    



                                        
                                        En Español
                                    
                                    





                                        
                                        Para tiendas de abarrotes en español
                                    
                                    











                                    
                                        For restaurants
                                    
                                    






                                        
                                        Para restaurante en español
                                    
                                    










 
                                    
                                        For housing communities
                                    
                                    






                                        
                                        Para comunidades de viviendas en español
                                    
                                    











                                        
                                        For childcare centers
                                    
                                    






                                    
                                        Para guarderías en español
                                    
                                    







                            
                                The Washington State Department of Health has more COVID-19 fact sheets available in multiple languages. 
                                
                            










                                
                                What Kitsap Public Health Is Doing
                      
                            




      
                                
                                The Kitsap Public Health District is working closely with the Washington State Department of Health and the Kitsap County Department of Emergency Management to respond to the COVID-19 outbreak. Our activities include: 
                            
                            


	
                                    
                                    Investigating COVID-19 cases in Kitsap and notifying people identified as having been in close contact with confirmed cases.  
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Providing guidance to Kitsap health care providers.
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Sharing information with local agencies, organizations, businesses and community groups.  
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Providing daily updates to the public and news media. 
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Encouraging Kitsap residents to take steps to protect their health and the health of their community.  
                                
                                

                                    
                                    Providing education about social distancing measures. 
                                
                                













                                
                                Stay Informed: Useful COVID-19 Links
                      
                            






Kitsap County COVID-19 Resources and Information


Washington State COVID-19 Website


Washington Department of Health COVID-19 Website
                                    
                                    


CDC COVID-19 Website


World Health Organization COVID-19 Website












                                
                                Resources for Health Care Providers
                      
                            






Kitsap Public Health District Advisories and Updates


Washington State Department of Health Guidance
                                    
                                    


Centers for Disease Control Guidance












                                
                                Resources for Veterinarians 
                      
                            






Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Guidance


Public Health — Seattle & King County Guidance
                                    
                                    









Scraping from https://www.governor.wa.gov/sites/default/files/BusinessTemplate_Phase3_1.pdf?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.kitsapgov.com/pw/Documents/Kitsap%20Recovery%20Playbook%20052220%20v1%20Reduced%20File%20Size.pdf


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://kitsappublichealth.org/CommunityHealth/files/COVID/COVID-KPHDFaceCoveringFactSheet.pdf


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.kitsapgov.com/Pages/coronavirus.aspx









Kitsap

Kitsap County COVID-19 Resources and Information






				Kitsap County COVID-19 Resources and Information
			





Page Content
  State places all counties' Safe Start applications on pauseOn July 2, Gov. Jay Inslee and Secretary of Health John Wiesman announced a two-week pause on all county applications to advance in the Safe Start plan due to concerns about increasing disease spread across Washington state. Kitsap County remains in Phase 2 until at least July 16.Face coverings People can use the resources listed here to better understand the state Secretary of Health's order requiring face coverings. Remember: some people may have a medical reason for not wearing a face covering. Whether or not those around you are wearing face coverings, focus on keeping six feet of distance between you and others, and wash your hands often.Get more information about face coverings from the Department of Health.Here are helpful answers to frequently asked questions about masks including about their effectiveness and information on the face covering requirement.Face covering requirements for individualsFree masks for qualifying householdsAs part of a statewide program, the Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center received 106,000 cloth face masks to distribute to low-income individuals through local social service agencies and organizations starting July 1. Two free masks are available for every person with an income at or below 200% of the federal poverty level.To access the free masks, call 2-1-1 between 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. seven days a week for direction to one of 66 distribution locations across the county.Read the Secretary of Health's order requiring individuals to wear face coverings in public and related guidance on cloth face coverings from the Department of Health.Face covering requirements for businesses/employersOverview of the order that businesses must require employees, customers and visitors wear masks.Read Gov. Jay Inslee's order requiring employees to wear face coverings in the workplace.Determine "Which Mask for Which Task?" Mask considerations for employers from the Department of Labor & Industries. Explore commonly asked questions about face coverings in the workplace.How to report a concernVisit Kitsap Public Health District's site to submit a concern about private individuals not following the masking requirements.For concerns about employees at a business, contact Washington State Department of Labor and Industries at (800) 423-7233 or email adag235@lni.wa.gov. Customers who are concerned that a business is not adequately enforcing the face mask order or
other Safe Start requirements can submit an anonymous complaint.Activities at a Glance: Phases 1 and 2 TableClick image to download
Pathway to Recovery Playbook We gathered Gov. Jay Inslee's guidelines for a Safe Start in one place, the Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook, to make them easier for local businesses to find. The playbook is updated regularly, as new information and guidance becomes available. The latest version was updated on July 10, 2020.The Pathway to Recovery Playbook was developed by the Kitsap County Department of Emergency Management to help our community understand and safely embark upon our phased opening. It includes everything from overarching guidance for every individual and employer to industry-specific recommendations for each phase of the Safe Start recovery plan. Similar resources are in the state's Safe Start COVID-19 Recovery Plan.
 Latest UpdatesThe daily update includes the latest COVID-19 testing results from Kitsap Public Health and a few headlines we think you should know about. 
Subscribe to get daily updates by email or text.Daily EOC Update - 07/10/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/09/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/08/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/07/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/06/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/05/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/04/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/03/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/02/2020Daily EOC Update - 07/01/2020 Older UpdatesDaily EOC Update - 06/30/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/29/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/28/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/27/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/26/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/25/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/24/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/23/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/22/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/21/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/20/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/19/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/18/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/17/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/16/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/15/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/14/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/13/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/12/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/11/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/10/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/09/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/08/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/07/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/06/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/05/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/04/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/03/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/02/2020Daily EOC Update - 06/01/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/31/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/30/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/29/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/28/2020Kitsap County approved for Phase 2 of Safe Start recovery plan - 5/28/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/27/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/26/2020Kitsap County publishes a "Playbook" for reopening - 05/26/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/25/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/24/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/23/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/22/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/21/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/20/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/19/2020Kitsap Public Health statement regarding Safe Start variance eligibility - 05/19/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/18/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/17/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/16/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/15/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/14/2020Kitsap County preparing for next steps on path to reopening, recovery - 05/14/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/13/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/12/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/11/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/10/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/09/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/08/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/07/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/06/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/05/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/04/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/03/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/02/2020Daily EOC Update - 05/01/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/30/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/29/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/28/2020Kitsap Public Health Community Health and Well-Being SurveyDaily EOC Update - 04/27/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/26/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/25/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/24/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/23/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/22/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/21/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/20/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/19/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/18/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/17/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/16/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/15/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/14/2020Kitsap drive-up COVID-19 testing site reopens - 04/13/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/13/2020Quarantine and Isolation Care Center in South Kitsap open - 04/13/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/12/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/11/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/10/2020Daily EOC Update -04/09/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/08/2020Daily EOC Update- 04/07/2020Kitsap County launches its first drive-through testing site for COVID-19 - 04/7/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/06/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/05/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/04/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/03/2020New Kitsap Cares website for community resources – and ways to help - 04/03/2020Isolation and Quarantine Centers on Kitsap's Horizon - 04/03/2020Daily EOC Update - 04/02/2020   Daily EOC Update - 04/01/2020Daily EOC Update - 03/31/2020Daily EOC Update - 03/30/2020Daily EOC Update - 03/29/2020Daily EOC Update - 03/28/2020Daily EOC Update - 03/27/2020Daily EOC Update - 03/26/2020Daily EOC Update - 03/25/2020 Quarantine and Isolation Care CenterThe KCEOC has opened a temporary quarantine and isolation care center in South Kitsap for people who have been exposed to or tested positive for COVID-19. The facility can accept patients referred by healthcare providers or public health officials in Kitsap County.
Learn more about the care center and how it will help our community.

 Scam Alerts and Rumor ControlWashington State Employment Security Division is warning of fraudulent unemployment claims and scam websites designed to steal personal information. If you become aware of unemployment fraud or suspect you were a victim, 
            report it here.Cybercriminals are taking advantage of fears surrounding the Coronavirus. WaTech's state Office of Cybersecurity has information on how to protect yourself online.Attorney General Bob Ferguson’s office is 
             investigating complaints of price gouging and scams in the COVID-19 public-health crisis. Washingtonians are able to 
             file a complaint online. Washington has a Spread the Facts campaign where you can find information about common rumors and help spread the truth about what is happening in Washington State as part of the coronavirus response. Attorney General Bob Ferguson warns Washingtonians about 
            scams related to stimulus payments from the federal government to help people get through the coronavirus pandemic.FEMA's 
            Coronavirus Rumor Control page can help you distinguish between rumors and facts regarding the coronavirus pandemic response.Puget Sound Energy will 
         not disconnect customers for non-payment and they will not call you threatening to disconnect or come to your door.
Learn how to protect yourself at the Federal Trade Commission's Coronavirus Scams page. How You Can Help (in addition to staying home)Visit the Kitsap Community Foundation's 
    
Kitsap Cares page to find more ways to help other people during the coronavirus pandemic.

DONATE PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE)The State of Washington is seeking to fill shortages of specific personal protective equipment (PPE) and infection-control products to support our medical system, first responders, public health and care facilities.           Visit the Kitsap Community Foundation's 
         Kitsap Cares page for a list of local places to donate supplies. 

HELP OTHERS - MUTUAL AIDReach out via phone, text, email, or video chat to check on neighbors, friends, and family.Visit the Kitsap Community Foundation's 
            Kitsap Cares page for more ways to help people in our community.Kitsap County Human Services Housing and Homelessness Division has created 
            resources for helping people living homeless. 

DONATE BLOODThere's a vital need for blood donors right now. If you have recovered from COVID-19, your blood may 
             help people who are currently sick with the disease. 

APPLY YOUR MEDICAL SKILLS       Medical practitioners are needed. 

Learn more about how you can help.



 Need Help by Phone?If you have questions about what is happening in Washington, or how the virus is spread, please call 1-800-525-0127 and press # from 6 am to 10 pm, seven days a week. Please note that this call center cannot access COVID-19 testing results. For testing inquiries or results, please contact your health care provider.You can also text the word “Coronavirus” to 211211 to receive information and updates wherever you are. You will receive links to the latest information on COVID-19, including county-level updates, and resources for families, businesses, students, and more.Call 911 only for life-threatening emergencies. Emergency response is available 24/7.Visit the Kitsap Community Foundation's 
         Kitsap Cares page for hotlines, including domestic violence, suicide, and mental health.         
         

 Health Information and COVID-19 DataKITSAP COUNTY
Kitsap Public Health District - COVID-19


WASHINGTON STATE
Washington Department of Health - 2019 Novel Coronavirus Outbreak
Washington State Coronavirus Response
 FEDERAL
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Coronavirus (COVID-19)
HEALTH INSURANCE
Washington Insurance Commissioner - Coronavirus and Health Insurance for consumers, insurers, and medical providers. 
Free or low-cost 
               Apple Health is available year-round from the Washington Health Benefit Exchange.
 

 Get Help - Resources for You and Your FamilyThe 
    
Washington State Coronavirus Resource page contains links to programs and services that may be helpful for Washingtonians who are impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. You can find local community resources and assistance programs at the Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares page.

 UNEMPLOYMENT AND OTHER BENEFITSHow to accurately and quickly file for unemployment benefitsWorkFirst is Washington's 
   temporary cash assistance program.Some Washingtonians may also apply for the 
   Disaster Cash Assistance Program. The assistance is available to all Washington families and people without children who meet the income and resource limits of the program. 

RENTAL ASSISTANCEA $641,438 grant from the federal CARES Act will provide up to three months of rental assistance for Kitsap County residents who make 80 percent or less of the area’s median income. The assistance is available to people affected by COVID-19 who are not receiving any other federal, state, or local housing subsidy.The Washington State Department of Commerce also has 
      rental and energy assistance available for households that qualify for the federal Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program.To find out if you qualify for rental or energy assistance funds, contact the Kitsap Housing Solutions Center, 360-473-2035, HSC@kcr.org or visit kcr.org.For households residing in Housing Kitsap units, contact Housing Kitsap at 360-535-6100, HousingKitsap@HousingKitsap.org or visit HousingKitsap.org.
  FOOD ASSISTANCEAll local school districts offer free grab and go meals to any child 18 and under (in some cases special education students age 21 and under also qualify). Check your local school district for instructions.
Central Kitsap School District
North Kitsap School District
South Kitsap School District
Bremerton School District
Bainbridge Island School DistrictAlso, 
Women, Infants, and Children Nutrition ProgramFind additional local food assistance programs at the Kitsap Community Foundation's 
            Kitsap Cares page.
DSHS is sending emergency supplements to people who get Basic Food (EBT). If you got Basic Food in March, you’ll get more benefits to bring your March amount up to the maximum for your household size. Read the 
               Basic Food Emergency Supplement FAQor learn more from DSHS.


MENTAL HEALTH, CRISIS HOTLINES, AND DOMESTIC VIOLENCE ASSISTANCEThe Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares page has a list of free 24-hour hotlines that can help.

RENT, UTILITIES, INTERNET, MORTGAGESIn Washington, all energy, landline phone, and water providers are prohibited from disconnecting residential customers for non-payment (except at the request of the customer); refusing to reconnect any residential customer who has been disconnected due to nonpayment; and charging fees for late repayment or reconnection of these services. Kitsap County has temporarily extended this spring’s property-tax deadline to May 31, 2020 (from April 30) due to impacts of the coronavirus on the financial lives of residents and businesses. The extension is for both individual and commercial taxpayers but does not apply to prior year delinquent taxes. The County is encouraging “property owners who are financially able to pay first half or full year property taxes early to fund essential services needed now and in the months to come.” For more info, visit the webpage of the 
            Kitsap County Treasurer. The Sewer Utility is temporarily 
            suspending all late penalties and placement of liens related to non-payment of monthly sewer service due to the COVID-19 crisis. The Resolution does not relieve a utility customer from the obligation to pay for sewer services.PSE has launched a Crisis Affected Customer Assistance Program to help pay for energy bills for those impacted by the coronavirus. Eligible households can receive up to $1000 if members are unemployed, partially unemployed, or unable to work due to COVID-19. For income and eligibility requirements, visit the PSE bill payment page.The governor has 
            extended and expanded the moratorium on evictions of residential tenants for non-payment through June 4, 2020. The new proclamation also extends protections to some commercial properties. If you are being evicted, you can 
            report it online to the Washington State Attorney General.City of Bremerton offers 
            temporary rental support and eviction protection for lost income or job losses caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Residents must live within Bremerton boundaries to be eligible.The Federal Housing Finance Agency has guidance on 
            available mortgage assistance programs.
Puget Sound Energy (PSE) and 
            Cascade Natural Gas will keep utility services on and are waiving late fees.City of Bremerton water and sewer service 
            will not be shutoff. City of Poulsbo will 
            not shutoff utilities due to nonpayment and will not assess late fees for March and April.City of Bainbridge Island 
            will not shutoff water and sewer service due to nonpayment and will not assess late fees.Comcast is offering 2 months free to new 
            Internet Essentials customers.  Xfinity is offering 
            free WiFi hotspots to anyone in the community who needs them, including non-Xfinity Internet subscribers.        
   CHILDCARE AND EARLY LEARNINGFree childcare for families of healthcare workers and emergency responders may be available through local school districts. Contact your local school district for information.
Central Kitsap School District
North Kitsap School District
South Kitsap School District
Bremerton School District
Bainbridge Island School DistrictKitsap Community Resources offers childhood early learning services to families of first responders and medical personnel. Email 
   earlylearning@kcr.org or call 360-473-2075. The state’s Families, Friends and Neighbor program includes grandparents, aunts and uncles, elders, older siblings, friends, neighbors and others who help families by providing child care. Visit the website or call 866-482-4325 for more information.
Visit the Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares page for more local childcare options.

GROCERY SERVICES - DELIVERY AND SPECIAL HOURS
  
Most grocery stores have special at-risk customer shopping hours. Contact your local store directly to ask about these hours.
 
There are several local groups offering assistance with shopping and other errands. For more information, see the Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares page. GARBAGE SERVICESKitsap County 
   waste disposal and recycling facilities have resumed normal schedules with restrictions. Curbside collection services continue as normal. Contact the 
   service provider in your area to subscribe or learn about services.

OLDER ADULTS AND CAREGIVER RESOURCESWashington State has a 
            list of resources for older adults (60+).Kitsap County Aging and Long-Term Care office can help you find 
            resources for older adults and caregivers (not specific to COVID-19).Washington Aging and Long-Term Support Administration provides 
             
resources for older adults, people who are deaf/hard of hearing, and their friends and families.Washington Department of Veterans Affairs provides frequent COVID-19 updates for family members and representatives of residents living in Veterans Homes.Kitsap County Department of Human Services administers the Veterans Assistance Fund for veterans in need. The money comes from a small portion of property taxes and is dedicated to providing assistance to veterans and their families.The Department of Social and Health Services is offering new resources during the COVID-19 response for people with loved ones within a DSHS owned, operated, or community facility. These resources help people get information or guidance about their family member. 
            Read the full news release. Businesses and Worker Resources
Kitsap businesses have sacrificed much during the Stay Home, Stay Healthy closure. Now as we move through the Stay Safe plan and get our economy moving again, we must continue to take safety precautions to protect our community and prevent a rebound of COVID-19 so our businesses can move towards recovery.
PATHWAY TO RECOVERY PLAYBOOK - BUSINESS ACTIVITY GUIDELINESAs Kitsap County moves into Phase 2 of the Safe Start COVID-19 recovery plan, some local businesses will reopen or begin to expand their services. As the approval letter from the state Secretary of Health noted, however, a business may reopen only “after it can implement the state guidelines for a safe start."We gathered those guidelines in one place, the Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook, to make them easier for local businesses to find. They are also available on the state’s Safe Start page.Businesses that are state licensed or certified professional should check with their licensing or certifying state agency for guidance. If no state guidance is available yet, the business cannot open under the governor's plan. ASK A QUESTION    Business owners and operators can fill out this form to ask Washington State questions about financial help or other state assistance for businesses.Businesses that still have questions about their status can contact the Kitsap Public Health District’s Liaison Officer at KPHD-LOFR@kitsappublichealth.org.

WASHINGTON STATE RESOURCESVisit the Safe Start page to read available plans and guidance for reopening certain industries.Department of Health Mask and Face Coverings guidance and resources and frequently asked questions.Which mask for which task? Guidance from Washington State Labor & Industries on when to use face coverings and respirators.Association of Washington Businesses Rebound and Recovery PPE Marketplace connects businesses with manufacturers who supply PPE, providing the opportunity to purchase equipment for employers and their employees so businesses can open safely.Find coronavirus resources for Washington businesses and workers, including eviction protection, loans, unemployment benefits, CARES Act, paid leave, taxes, insurance, federal paycheck protection, debt relief, and more. Washington State Department of Labor & Industries (L&I) has issued COVID-specific guidance for the grocery and retail industry and general guidance for workplaces.Washington state offers additional resources for businesses through its 
            Business Liaisons program and the Rebound and Recovery program which offers resources for personal protection equipment (PPE).The Washington Retail Association offers a retail 
Special COVID-19 Resource Guide and a Retail COVID Safety Operation Plan from the Washington Retailers Association.Read Washington's Business & Workers weekly update for businesses and workers navigating the COVID-19 pandemic.The state Economic Resiliency Team collaborates with the Association of Washington Business to provides a weekly webinars on 
             
COVID-19 Economic Recovery and Resilience.Governor Inslee has expanded the eviction moratorium to add additional protections to some commercial tenants.

LOCAL RESOURCESDuring the Stay Home, Stay Healthy closures, Kitsap chambers of commerce rallied to support local businesses in not only strengthening their resiliency but also implementing new and creative strategies to stay afloat while supporting their employees. Read their letter to the community. The local chambers of commerce recently compiled a Back to Business Toolkit that offers a variety of resources for successfully reopening. Chambers are also promoting a new site at kitsapcovid19.com and a local COVID-19 Business Support Facebook page.The Kitsap Public Health District has printable signs and information sheets for businesses. Kitsap Economic Development Alliance offers a 
             
weekly webinar for Kitsap business leaders and partners and other resources for Kitsap businesses.Our neighbors at King County offer useful resources for businesses to help keep employees and the public safe.
   
FINANCIAL SUPPORT
The U.S. Small Business Association provides coronavirus relief funding options.

 Nonprofits & Homeless Service Provider ResourcesKitsap County Human Services maintains a 
             
resource page for local homeless service providers.Washington Department of Commerce provides 
             
grants and guidance for homeless service providers.Washington State maintains a list of 
            coronavirus resources for Washington nonprofits, businesses, and workers, including information about disaster assistance loans.Find additional nonprofit resources on the Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares page. Apartments, Condos, and Similar Residences - Resources King County Health District: 
   COVID-19: For managers, staff, and residents of apartment buildings, condominiums, and similar residential communities

 Important ClosuresTo protect the public and our staff, most 
            Kitsap County government services are now online, by phone, by mail, or by video conference. We have closed most public service counters, but staff are still working and can serve you remotely.Kitsap Regional Library branches are 
            closed to the public.
Kitsap County Parks COVID-19 Updates
 


 TransportationWASHINGTON STATE FERRIES

View COVID-19 Updates from Washington State Ferries


 KITSAP TRANSIT
 
Starting on Monday, May 4, until further notice, Kitsap Transit will require all Worker/Driver passengers to wear a face covering to ride this service. Kitsap Transit has temporarily reduced services. They are providing free fares through June 30. 
   View Kitsap Transit updates.

 Other Languages Have more questions about COVID-19? Call the Washington State hotline: 1-800-525-0127. For interpretative services, press # when they answer and say your language. (Open from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.) For questions about your own health, COVID-19 testing, or testing results, please contact your health care provider.El Distrito de Salud Pública de Kitsap ha creado una 
            nueva página de información COVID-19 en Español. La página incluye estadísticas locales de COVID-19, hojas informativas y enlaces a recursos adicionales.
View coronavirus information in 26+ languages ¿Tiene alguna pregunta sobre el coronavirus? Llame al 1-800-525-0127 o envíe un mensaje de texto al 211-211. 
El nuevo Virus Corona (COVID-19) - Departamento de Salud del estado de Washington
BeinestarWA - Una comunicación del Departamento de Salud del estado de Washington
Nacional de Prevención del Suicidio: 1-888-628-9454Esta pagina contiene informacion y enlaces para programas y servicios que pueden ser util para los residentes impactados por COVID-19 (coronavirus): 
             
https://www.bremertonwa.gov/1193/COVID-19-Recursos-Comunitarios 

   


 Cities and Tribes of Kitsap County City residents and tribal members can find additional resources and information using the links below.City of Bremerton: 
       
View coronavirus information.City of Port Orchard: 
       
View coronavirus information.City of Poulsbo: 
       

View coronavirus information.City of Bainbridge Island: 
       
View coronavirus information.Suquamish Tribe: 
      View coronavirus information.Port Gamble S'Klallam Tribe: 
       
View coronavirus information.

 About this page         This page is designed to help Kitsap County residents find government information and assistance during the coronavirus pandemic. It is maintained by the Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center and updated daily with new resources. Kitsap EOC includes members from Kitsap Public Health District, Kitsap County Emergency Management, Kitsap 911, Law Enforcement, and Kitsap Fire Chiefs Association.Visit the 
   

Kitsap Cares page to find available resources from community groups and nonprofits. 



































Scraping from http://kcowa.us/recoveryplaybook


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.doh.wa.gov/Portals/1/Documents/1600/coronavirus/Secretary_of_Health_Order_20-03_Statewide_Face_Coverings.pdf


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.doh.wa.gov/Portals/1/Documents/1600/coronavirus/ClothFacemasks.pdf


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://coronavirus.wa.gov/sites/default/files/2020-07/Overview%20of%20mask%20order_July7.pdf


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.governor.wa.gov/sites/default/files/SafeStartPhasedReopening.pdf


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/29519b6



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on July 10


Positive tests to date: 284


Negative tests to date: 13,233

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard



 
Kitsap Health District releases Safe Start report card 
Gov. Jay Inslee paused all county Safe Start applications until at least July 16. Kitsap County remains in Phase 2. In the meantime, Kitsap Public Health District (KPHD) is tracking all targets that must be met to move forward to Phase 3.
The Kitsap County Safe Start Report Card gives a snapshot of where the county stands in five risk assessment areas: COVID-19 activity, healthcare system readiness, testing, case investigations and contact tracing, and the protection of populations at higher risk.
The targets reflect recommendations from the Washington State Department of Health. More details are available on KPHD's COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard.
 
Inslee expands eligibility for Family Emergency Assistance Program
Gov. Jay Inslee issued a proclamation on July 9 authorizing the Department of Social and Health Services to expand eligibility for the agency’s Family Emergency Assistance Program to include individuals and families without children. It goes into effect immediately, expires at the end of the state of emergency and does not require legislative approval for extension.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page

Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page

Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/294eaa9



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on July 9


Positive tests to date: 279


Negative tests to date: 13,057

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 

 
Moving forward with Safe Start: what you can do
Gov. Jay Inslee paused Safe Start applications until at least July 16, but we are still keeping tabs on Kitsap's progress under the state's guidelines. Detailed data can be viewed in the Kitsap County COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard, which was updated today.
Kitsap residents can help us meet Safe Start measures by:

Taking steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including staying six feet apart, washing hands, wearing face coverings, and staying home when sick.
Getting tested for COVID-19 immediately if you feel sick, even if your symptoms are mild.
Participating in contact tracing. If you get a call from Kitsap Public Health, please respond!

 
Washington Listens offers free support during pandemic
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Washington has launched a support programcalled Washington Listens. People who use Washington Listens services receive support to manage elevated stress and cope with the changes due to COVID-19.
The Washington Listens support line is 1-833-681-0211. Hours are 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays. TTY and language access services are available by using 7-1-1 or their preferred method.
Callers receive support and connection to community resources in their area. The program is anonymous. Resources and self-help tips are available on walistens.org.

 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page

Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page

Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/294b620



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on July 8


Positive tests to date: 272


Negative tests to date: 12,702

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 

 
Inslee extends Safe Start proclamation, issues additional guidance
Gov. Jay Inslee announced the extension of the Safe Start proclamation until August 6. This extension clarifies the interaction between Safe Start and Department of Health Secretary John Wiesman's facial coverings order.
The governor also announced additional clarification for restaurant and taverns in Phases 2 and 3. This comes as more counties move forward under Washington’s Safe Start recovery plan. 
Under this guidance, bar-style seating and live music are hereby prohibited in Phase 2 and Phase 3. Additionally, restaurants and taverns in Phase 2 or beyond are now permitted to resume self-service buffets, salad bars, salsa bars, and other similar communal food sources and drink stations, subject to business adherence to safety standards. Read the full memo.
 
Visitors to long-term care facilities remain restricted
Gov. Inslee's Proclamation 20-52.4 further extended visitor restrictions at long-term care facilities through August 1, 2020. The state Department of Social and Health Services is currently working on a plan for a safe, phased reopening of facilities to outside visitors. More details on this plan will be released in the coming weeks.
 
Kitsap Public Health District answers your COVID-19 data questions
The Kitsap Public Health District (KPHD) is accepting feedback on their COVID-19 data reports to make them more useful and easier to understand. Here are some answers to some of their frequently asked questions. More information is available on the KPHD Risk Assessment Dashboard.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page

Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page

Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2947ce5



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on July 7


Positive tests to date: 267


Negative tests to date: 12,471

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 

 
Guidance on new statewide mask mandate
The statewide mandate for businesses to require face coverings of all employees and customers began today. Gov. Jay Inslee's office issued an overview of the requirements that includes best practices, how to communicate with customers and visitors not wearing a face covering, and how to submit an anonymous report about businesses not adequately enforcing the state-wide face covering order.
 
Contact tracing to stop the spread of COVID-19

Contact tracing is a critical tool in a community’s effort to stop the spread of COVID-19 as stay at home measures are lifted. Contact tracing stops the chain of transmission through rapid isolation of positive cases and identification and quarantine of those in “close contact” with a positive case during the infectious period.
Employers play a vital role in contact tracing. With a responsibility to provide a safe workplace, employers have a vested interest in quickly notifying employees of potential exposure to COVID-19 to keep employees healthy, maintain customer and employee confidence, and reduce the need to close facilities. 
The key steps employers can take to prepare their workplace to support contact tracing efforts are:

Be prepared and make a plan
Establish a COVID-19 point of contact
Strengthen channels to quickly identify COVID-19 cases
Take swift action once a case has been identified:a. Support the sick employeeb. Protect the health and safety of others in the workplacec. Partner with Public Health to reduce workplace and community transmission

New contact tracing resource for employers:
Challenge Seattle, an alliance of the region's largest employers, created "Healthy Workplace: The Role of Employers in Effective Contact Tracing," a document providing recommended actions for employers in each of these roles and provides practical advice on how to prepare for the potential of having to confront COVID-19 in the workplace.


 
Share your feedback on COVID-19 data reports
The Kitsap Public Health District (KPHD) is taking time this week to evaluate their COVID-19 data reports and wants your feedback. What statistics do you find most useful? Are there data not reported that you are interested in seeing? What do you feel could make reports easier to access and understand?
Please email pio@kitsappublichealth.org with your suggestions.

Here are some of the key data reports produced by KPHD:📊 Daily COVID-19 surveillance dashboard: https://tabsoft.co/3e8Qox9📊 Risk assessment dashboard (updated weekly with more than 35 charts): https://tabsoft.co/2VVjvxC📊 Weekly COVID-19 surveillance report: https://bit.ly/2ADUbEN
In addition, KPHD is in the process of updating this case characteristics report to include recent cases: https://bit.ly/3e4C48R
Thank you for your feedback!


 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page

Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page

Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2944cf0



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on July 6


Positive tests to date: 265


Negative tests to date: 12,211

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 

 
Reminder: Statewide mask requirement for businesses starts tomorrow
Gov. Jay Inslee and Sec. of Health John Wiesman today announced a statewide requirement for businesses to require face coverings of all employees and customers beginning tomorrow, July 7. Under this proclamation, businesses may not serve any customer, services or goods, if they do not comply with the state-wide face covering order.
More resources on mask coverings are available at kcowa.us/covid19resources, including requirements for employers and tips from the state Department of Labor & Industries.
 
Payroll Protection Program deadline extended
The U.S. Small Business Administration Paycheck Protection Program resumed accepting applications today in response to the Paycheck Protection Program Extension Act. The new deadline to apply is August 8.
The Payroll Protection Program is a loan designed to provide a direct incentive for small businesses to keep workers on the payroll. More information is available on the U.S. Small Business Administration website.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page

Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page

Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2941b00



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 10 a.m. on July 5


Positive tests to date: 261


Negative tests to date: 12,152

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 

 

Emergency order extended waiving deductibles, copays for coronavirus testing

Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler extended his emergency order to state health insurers for an additional 30 days. The order requires insurers to waive copays and deductibles for any consumer requiring testing for COVID-19.
View the press release here.
 
Washington 211 COVID-19 Call Center
Do you need information or answers to your questions and concerns about COVID-19? Call the Washington State Department of Health helpline at 1-800-525-0127 or text 211-211.
You can also text the word “Coronavirus” to 211-211 to receive information and updates on your phone wherever you are. You will receive links to the latest information on COVID-19, including county-level updates, and resources for families, businesses, students, and more.

 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page

Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page

Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2940535



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 10 a.m. on July 4


Positive tests to date: 258


Negative tests to date: 12,098

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 

 
Happy Independence Day, Kitsap!
Here are some fun facts about this national holiday, provided by the U.S. Census Bureau and the National Archives:
The Declaration of Independence was approved July 4, 1776 by the 2nd Continental Congress, leading 13 colonies to gain Independence from England. The declaration was signed by 56 congressional members, among them a committee of five who drafted the declaration: Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Roger Sherman and Robert Livingston.
Most of the congressional delegates didn't sign it until August 2. John Hancock, President of the Congress, was first and there were 55 others. A few refused. George Washington didn't sign it as he was away with his troops.
When the Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776, there were about 2.5 million people living in the new free nation. As of July 4, 2019, there were estimated to be 328 million people living in the United States.
Read the Declaration of Independence and more about its fascinating history from the National Archives here. 
 

 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/293edf1



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 11 a.m. on July 3


Positive tests to date: 256


Negative tests to date: 12,013

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
 
New statewide face covering requirements begin July 7

Gov. Jay Inslee and Secretary of Health John Wiesman announced yesterday that beginning July 7, businesses must require face coverings of all customers and may not serve any customer if they do not comply. This expands an earlier face covering order that went into effect on June 26, and requires all Washingtonians to wear face coverings in public indoor places or outdoors when unable to maintain six feet of distance from others. The expanded order, along with guidance to help businesses understand how to implement it, will be issued early next week.
The governor also ordered a two-week statewide pause on advancing counties from their current phases under Safe Start. Counties will remain in their current phase until at least July 16. Kitsap County is in Phase 2 of the Safe Start recovery plan. Read the release here.


 
Your voice counts! Register to vote for primary election 
Washington state’s primary election is Aug. 4. Ballots will be mailed by July 17. Now is the time to register to vote or update your voter registration name and address.
Are you a new resident of Kitsap County? Do you have a child who recently turned 18? Did you move in the last year? Change your name? If you have a current Washington driver's license or state ID, you can register to vote online at votewa.gov. You can also update your name and address, check your voting history and find information about restoring voting rights.
To learn more about Kitsap County elected officials, district maps, information about federal state, county and city representatives as well as school fire, port sewer, utility water and park and recreation districts, visit the Kitsap County Auditor’s Office elections page.
The voter’s pamphlet for the Aug. 4 primary and a sample ballot are available now:
Local Voters' Pamphlet Read statements from the 110 candidates who will be on the Kitsap County ballot. 
Sample Ballot See all the candidates who will appear on Kitsap ballots (except for precinct committee officers).
 
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/293c778



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on July 2


Positive tests to date: 247


Negative tests to date: 11,795

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Health District update:
Today, the Kitsap Public Health District added the number of "active" COVID-19 cases in Kitsap County to the daily surveillance dashboard. “Active cases” are community members who tested positive for COVID-19 and are advised to isolate until they are no longer at risk of spreading the virus, per CDC guidelines. A Kitsap Public Health employee checks in with these cases every day. Cases will be listed as “active” until they no longer need to isolate. There were 22 active cases in Kitsap County on July 1.
 
 
Gov. Inslee announces all Safe Start applications on hold until July 16, businesses must require face coverings
Today, Gov. Jay Inslee put a two-week pause on all county applications to reopen due to high levels of COVID-19 activity across the state. Counties will remain in their current phase until at least July 16. Kitsap County is currently in Phase 2 of the Safe Start recovery plan.
Gov. Inslee and Secretary of Health John Wiesman also announced that starting July 7, businesses will be required to ensure their customers or clients and employees are wearing face coverings. Under this proclamation, businesses may not serve any customer, services or goods, if they do not comply with the state-wide face-covering order.
The extension comes in response to growing case counts in counties across the state, and after last week’s proclamation mandating the same requirement of businesses in Yakima County. Read the full announcement here.

There are exemptions to the previous Department of Health face-covering order, including people with certain disabilities or health conditions, people who are deaf or hard of hearing and children under the age of 2. The order does not require you to document or prove a reason for not wearing a face covering. If a business won’t allow you to enter their office or store, ask them what accommodations they can provide such as curbside pick-up, delivery or virtual meeting options.
More information on these new orders will be posted at https://www.governor.wa.gov.
 
 

Party like it's 2020

This weekend will be filled with celebrations. The continued spread of COVID-19 means we need to celebrate differently. Staying local and keeping our circle of contacts small will help Kitsap County stay on the path to recovery. Your home, away from people outside your immediate household, remains the safest place to be.

Here is a short list of things to remember when it comes to gathering together in the time of COVID-19:

Outside is safer than inside.
Small groups are safer than large groups.
Less time together is safer than more time together.
Within six feet, face coverings are better than no face coverings.

To learn more tips about keeping you and your family safe, click here. 
 
 
Special phone line takes non-emergency calls to report concerns about fireworks use until July 6
Just a reminder: To reduce the impact of non-emergency calls into Kitsap 911, persons concerned about fireworks use who aren't reporting immediate threats to life or property can call a special line (360) 307-5811 now through 5 a.m. July 6.
Fireworks rules in Kitsap County vary between cities and unincorporated areas as well as on local tribal reservations. To learn more, visit the Kitsap County Fire Marshal's page at: https://www.kitsapgov.com/dcd/Pages/Fireworks.aspx
 
 

COVID-19 impacts ferry schedules
Public health officials are asking Washingtonians to stay close to home this holiday weekend to help slow the uptick we’re seeing in the transmission of COVID-19. If you do happen to have plans that involve a ride aboard one of our state ferries, check before you travel.
Washington State Ferries is telling passengers to plan and prepare for extended waits. Several routes, including the Kingston-Edmonds run, are operating on reduced schedules dependent on their COVID Response Service Plan.
With more than 100 high-risk employees unavailable due to the pandemic, crewing has been a challenge. Due to a lack of crew members needed to meet U.S. Coast Guard safety requirements, there have been further schedule reductions over the past few weekends.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2939c5a



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on July 1


Positive tests to date: 242


Negative tests to date: 11,550

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
 
Phase 3 application on pause until July 9
The Kitsap Public Health District received notification from Washington State Secretary of Health John Wiesman that the state is pausing review of Kitsap County’s application to move to Phase 3 of the Safe Start plan until at least July 9, as public health officials evaluate changing circumstances. Kitsap County remains in Phase 2. 
Kitsap met many of the criteria used by the state to evaluate whether counties are ready to move to the next phase of Safe Start. However, the situation has changed significantly since Kitsap County’s application was submitted June 19. 
The number of COVID-19 cases reported in Kitsap has risen substantially. A total of 78 cases were reported in June, compared with 11 in May. In addition, several COVID-19 outbreaks have been reported in the county, including three linked to long-term care facilities. Read the full press release for more details.
 
Kitsap Transit survey finds strong support for face coverings
About 77 percent of people agree that wearing a face covering or mask in public is necessary, based on 1,731 responses to a recent survey conducted by Kitsap Transit that closed on June 21. 
Kitsap Transit now requires all customers to wear a face covering or mask on its buses, ferries and vans as well as at transit centers, park & ride lots and ferry terminals. Customers who do not have a face covering will be asked to put on a disposable mask available from dispensers on Kitsap Transit vehicles.
Survey respondents represent a diverse cross-section of the community. Analysis of the full survey is ongoing.
 
Inslee announces funding for rent assistance, tribal recovery 
On June 30, Gov. Jay Inslee announced the state has distributed nearly $365 million in federal funds to help with COVID-19 response and relief efforts across Washington.
Distributed this week to seven state agencies and the University of Washington, the allocations include nearly $351 million in federal CARES Act funding and $13.5 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. To date, the state has distributed more than $950 million in federal COVID-19 relief and response funds.
This week’s distributions include $163 million to the state Department of Commerce to provide aid to many of those hardest hit by the economic fallout from the worst pandemic in more than a century. Read the governor's press release for more details.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2936acc



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 30


Positive tests to date: 235


Negative tests to date: 11,206

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
 
Celebrate safely: A message from Kitsap Public Health District
Kitsap Public Health officials are urging residents to exercise caution over the Fourth of July weekend, as the number of COVID-19 cases reported across the county and state continues to increase. Eleven new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kitsap County on Tuesday, June 30th, bringing the county’s total for June to 71. Only 11 cases were reported in Kitsap in the month of May. 
“We have reached a pivotal moment in our response to this pandemic,” Kitsap Public Health District Health Officer Dr. Susan Turner said. “As case numbers rise, we must redouble our efforts as a community to control the spread of COVID-19 and protect our most vulnerable residents. That starts with each of us taking deliberate steps to safeguard our health and the health of people close to us.”
With the holiday weekend approaching, residents are strongly advised to:


Limit gatherings to no more than five people outside of your immediate household. Smaller is safer.

Keep travel local. Staying home is the safest option.

Stay six feet apart from others. Outdoor gatherings are safer than indoor gatherings.

Wear a face covering in situations where staying six feet apart is difficult and anytime you are indoors with people from outside your immediate household.

Stay home if you feel sick, even if your illness is mild. Attending a gathering will put other people’s health at risk. Call your health provider immediately to get tested.

“We are all eager to reconnect with family and friends, and we know it is difficult to stay apart, especially during a holiday,” Dr. Turner said. “We can still celebrate the holiday, but our celebrations need to look different this year.”
Find more prevention tips at cdc.gov/coronavirus.
 

Free masks for qualifying households
As part of a statewide program, the Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center received 106,000 cloth face masks to distribute to low-income individuals through local social service agencies and organizations starting July 1. Two free masks are available for every person with an income at or below 200% of the federal poverty level.
To access the free masks, call 2-1-1 between 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. seven days a week for direction to one of 66 distribution locations across the county.

 
Give yourself a hand
We’ve focused on staying home over the past few months because that is the most effective way to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Now that we’re out and about more often, we want to maintain physical distance and good hand washing, too.
Remember, the virus can also be transmitted from the surfaces our hands touch. To help stop the spread of COVID-19, keep these three steps to good hand hygiene in mind:

Wash your hands with soap for 20 seconds.
Use hand sanitizer when you can’t wash.
Keep hands away from your face, especially your eyes and nose.

When out and about, stay six feet away from those not in your household and give yourself a hand – wash frequently.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2933b54



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 29


Positive tests to date: 224


Negative tests to date: 10,900

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


Health District Update:
Kitsap County’s application to move to Phase 3 of the state’s Safe Start plan is still being reviewed by the Washington State Department of Health. We do not have a firm timeline for when to expect a response but we will share the state’s decision as soon as it is announced. Phase 3 applications are pending for four other Washington counties. See the Safe Start county status page for more information.
 
 

Last chance to apply for Paycheck Protection Program
Tuesday, June 30 is the last day businesses can apply for Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans through the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). The PPP is designed to provide direct incentives for small businesses to keep their workers on the payroll.
The SBA will forgive loans if all employees are kept on the payroll for eight weeks and the money is used for payroll, rent, mortgage interest, or utilities. See the SBA website for more information.

 
Today’s "to-do" list
Is yours a “To-Do” List? Your “Daily Tasks?” For some, it’s the well-known “Honey-do” list. Whatever you call it, there’s one thing that should be at the top of every list you make.
Keep myself and others safe.
Whether you’re running errands to the grocery store, checking in at the golf course, or buying lumber for that backyard project, job one is to keep doing the basics of stopping COVID-19.

Physical distancing – Six feet or more apart
Frequent hand washing
Keeping your hands away from your face
Face coverings when appropriate

We’ve been at this for a long time, and it’s easy to let bad habits creep in. Remember the basics by always putting safety at the top of your list.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/29306e1



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 28


Positive tests to date: 222


Negative tests to date: 10,670

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
 

Plan to restart higher education in the fall

Gov. Jay Inslee announced guidance last week for restarting in-person instruction at higher education institutions in the fall.
Understanding that not every campus is the same, each institution will develop and implement its own Safe Back-to-School Plan. Higher education institutions will continue working with their local health jurisdictions throughout this pandemic.
Plans must include several key considerations, such as limiting shared equipment, and tracking and tracing the spread of the virus. The guidance and requirements go into effect August 1, before the start of the 2020–2021 school year.
 
Why wear a mask?
The state Secretary of Health's order mandates the use of cloth face coverings in most public areas. As more people are out and about, wearing masks can keep the virus from spreading. The Washington State Department of Health has a list of top ten reasons to wear a mask. 
If you see someone not wearing their mask, just respectfully leave them alone and stay six feet away. Some people have medical reasons not to wear a mask.

 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/292d39d



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 26


Positive tests to date: 215


Negative tests to date: 10,271

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
 
What you need to know about cloth face coverings
The Secretary of Health's face cloth covering requirement began today. The Washington State Department of Health (DOH) has updated information on its website and on the Governor’s coronavirus page.
You can also find more information about face coverings on the Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center's website. 



 
Washington Listens: Support is just a phone call away
The Washington Health Care Authority launched a support program called Washington Listens to help people manage elevated stress and cope with changes due to COVID-19.
Call 1-833-681-0211 to receive support and connection to community resources in your area. Calls will remain anonymous. 
Washington Listens is available to anyone in Washington from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekends. TTY and language access services are available. See this fact sheet for more information.





 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/292d39d



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 26


Positive tests to date: 215


Negative tests to date: 10,271

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
 
What you need to know about cloth face coverings
The Secretary of Health's face cloth covering requirement began today. The Washington State Department of Health (DOH) has updated information on its website and on the Governor’s coronavirus page.
You can also find more information about face coverings on the Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center's website. 



 
Washington Listens: Support is just a phone call away
The Washington Health Care Authority launched a support program called Washington Listens to help people manage elevated stress and cope with changes due to COVID-19.
Call 1-833-681-0211 to receive support and connection to community resources in your area. Calls will remain anonymous. 
Washington Listens is available to anyone in Washington from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekends. TTY and language access services are available. See this fact sheet for more information.





 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/292a769



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 25


Positive tests to date: 205


Negative tests to date: 10,095

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


Health District Update:
Kitsap County’s application to move to Phase 3 of the Safe Start plan is still being reviewed by the state, alongside applications from two other counties. See the Safe Start county status page for more information.
 
Feel sick? Don't delay getting tested for COVID-19

People who have symptoms consistent with COVID-19 are encouraged to get tested for COVID-19, even if their symptoms are mild. Health care providers have been advised to test anyone who has symptoms consistent with COVID-19.

Follow these steps to get tested:

Call your regular health care provider to talk about your symptoms and getting tested.
If you do not have a health care provider, you can become established with a provider or contact an urgent care clinic near you.
If you do not have health insurance, visit Kitsap Public Health District's Health Insurance page for information about enrollment assistance.

View a list of COVID-19 test providers in Kitsap County.
 
COVID-19 testing: An important tool for recovery
Testing is an important tool in our response to the coronavirus pandemic. When someone is diagnosed with COVID-19, a trained Kitsap Public Health employee will help them take steps to avoid spreading the virus to others. Testing also provides data needed to assess the level of illness in our community as we make progress toward recovery.
If you have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been exposed to COVID-19, you should get tested. Learn more about COVID-19 tests from the Washington State Department of Health.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2927a12



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 24


Positive tests to date: 202


Negative tests to date: 9,966

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


Health District Update:
Kitsap County’s application to move to Phase 3 of the Safe Start plan is still being reviewed by the state, alongside applications from two other counties. Thurston County, which applied two days before Kitsap, was approved for Phase 3 earlier today. See the Safe Start county status page for more information.
 
Masks? Ready... set... learn
The Washington State Secretary of Health’s order to wear masks goes into effect on Friday, which gives all of us time to learn important details.
Please do not call 911 to ask about the secretary’s order. We’re grateful to those who want to follow the order, but 911 is not equipped to handle requests for information.
Here are some more links that will help you get a leg up on being ready:

The Washington State Department of Health page on masks 
The Governor’s Coronavirus web page

US Centers for Disease Control tips on making your own masks 

We understand that this is a lot of information to absorb. As additional resources emerge, we will share them with you.
 
Kitsap Transit updates

Starting Friday, June 26, Kitsap Transit will require all customers to wear a face covering or mask on its buses, ferries and vans, as well as at transit centers, park & ride lots and ferry terminals. This follows the statewide mandate issued June 23. 
Kitsap Transit is extending suspension of fare collection through the end of July. The temporary fare-free policy applies to all services, including routed buses, ACCESS, worker/driver buses, vanpools and ferries.
Kitsap Transit will not operate services on the observed Independence Day holiday, Friday, July 3. This includes routed buses, ride shuttle services, worker/driver buses and local and fast ferries. Kitsap Transit offices and call centers will also be closed. Regularly scheduled Saturday service will resume July 4 for most services.

There are exceptions to some of the service interruptions. For more information, visit www.kitsaptransit.com or contact Kitsap Transit customer service at 800-501-RIDE.
 
Protect your health
These are challenging times and families are doing their best to navigate difficult decisions about when to stay home, when to go out, when to visit friends and loved ones, and when to stay apart. With coronavirus still spreading in our area, there are simple steps we need to follow as a community to protect everyone's health.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2924211



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 23


Positive tests to date: 199


Negative tests to date: 9,803

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


Health District Update:
The state is reviewing Kitsap County’s request to move from Phase 2 to Phase 3 of the Safe Start plan for COVID-19 recovery. We don’t know how soon we will receive a response from the state. We will share the state’s decision as soon as it is announced.
 
New statewide order on face coverings
Gov. Jay Inslee announced today that, effective Friday (June 26), the state Secretary of Health is requiring cloth face coverings to be worn in public when physical distance of six feet from others cannot be maintained. 
There are exemptions to the mask requirement for those with certain disabilities or health conditions, those who are deaf or hard of hearing, and for children under age 5 (though it's encouraged to have children ages 3-5 wear a covering if possible). 
Read more information for you and your family on the new requirement. 
Staying home is still the safest way to prevent spreading COVID-19. When out, wear your face covering, stay six feet apart from others, wash your hands frequently, and stay local.
 
Going back to work
As more businesses open throughout the state, more of us are going back to work. As we do, you may have some questions about work and COVID-19. The Washington State Department of Health worked with the Department of Labor & Industries to explore what types of occupations and industries people who were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Washington worked in. See what they found in this report.
The highest number of COVID-19 cases in Washington is among people who work in health care and social assistance. The manufacturing industry has the second highest number of cases. This includes traditional manufacturing businesses as well as food processing facilities.
It’s important to note that while the risk for contracting COVID-19 may be higher for people depending on their industry or occupation, the report reflects where people work, not where or how they were infected.
Do you know what to expect when going back to work? Here are a few frequently asked questions to consider when returning to the workplace.
 
American Sign Language (ASL) guidance videos now available
The Washington State Department of Health (DOH) released new information in American Sign Language for the Safe Start plan, which can be found on the DOH’s ASL landing page. The video collection offers helpful resources and guidance to answer questions, help make informed choices and keep you, your family and community safe and healthy during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2920ec9



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 22


Positive tests to date: 195


Negative tests to date: 9,674

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


Health District Update:
The state is reviewing Kitsap County’s request to move from Phase 2 to Phase 3 of the Safe Start plan for COVID-19 recovery. We don’t know how soon we will receive a response from the state. Three other Washington counties submitted Phase 3 applications ahead of Kitsap that are still under review. We will share the state’s decision as soon as it is announced.
 
FDA warning on hand sanitizer containing methanol
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advises consumers not to use any hand sanitizer manufactured by Eskbiochem SA de CV in Mexico, due to the potential presence of methanol (wood alcohol), a substance that can be toxic when absorbed through the skin or ingested. 
On June 17, the FDA contacted Eskbiochem to recommend the company remove its hand sanitizer products from the market due to the risks associated with methanol poisoning. To date, the company has not taken action. The FDA recommends consumers stop using these hand sanitizers and dispose of them immediately in appropriate hazardous waste containers. Do not flush or pour these products down the drain.
The FDA is not aware of any reports of adverse events associated with these hand sanitizer products. See the FDA notice for a full list of products affected by this warning.
 




Risk of getting COVID-19 from food is very low
Coronaviruses, like the one that causes COVID-19, are spread mostly person-to-person through respiratory droplets when someone coughs, sneezes, or talks. While it is possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object -- including food or food packaging -- that has the virus on it, this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.

Currently, there is no evidence to suggest that handling food or consuming food is associated with COVID-19 transmission. More information about food and COVID-19 is available from the CDC.

 



Protect your community: Stay home if you’re sick
We know there’s lot of information coming at you about how to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Physical distancing, washing hands and face coverings are terrific “tools in the toolbox” for keeping everyone safe.
These tools are important to remember when we are feeling well. But if you aren’t feeling well, the one and only way to protect others is to stay at home. Physical distancing and face coverings are not a substitute for isolating yourself at home or in another safe location.
If you don’t feel well, contact your medical provider and follow their guidance on getting tested for COVID-19 and other steps on caring for your health. If you don’t have a safe place to stay, or if you have other high-risk individuals living with you, your medical provider can refer you a place where you can stay after receiving COVID-19 testing that is safe and free of charge.
Find more information on this resource at http://kcowa.us/covid19.
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/291e9d6



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 21


Positive tests to date: 194


Negative tests to date: 9,446

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Summer fun
It’s summer and it’s time to go outside! The good news is, when it comes to COVID-19, just about anything you can come up with to do outside is going to be lower risk than a gathering indoors.
Still, keep that cloth face covering with your outdoor gear in case you end up along a trail or in a park where you can’t consistently stay more than six feet away from others.
As you are considering your plans for the summer, the keys to COVID-free summer fun are:

Outside is lower risk than inside.
Small gatherings are lower risk than large gatherings.
Stay at least six feet away from other people as much as possible.
Wash your hands, and keep a bottle of hand sanitizer within easy reach - like next to the sunscreen and bug spray.

Read this blog post from the Washington State Department of Health for more tips for common summer activities.
 

 

Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/291d511



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 20


Positive tests to date: 191


Negative tests to date: 9,259

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Updated guidance for weddings and funerals
Gov. Jay Inslee announced additional clarification yesterday for non-religious weddings and funeral or memorial services in Phases 1, 2 and 3. This comes as more counties move forward under Washington’s Safe Start recovery plan.
The memorandum further clarifies the guidance for religious and faith-based organizations released on Thursday, June 18.
 
Emergency order on telehealth coverage extended
Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler extended his emergency order requiring health insurers to continue coverage for providing telehealth and all medically necessary diagnostic testing for flu and other viral respirator illnesses. COVID-19 test at drive-up sites are covered as provider visits. The order is in effect until July 19.
 
The paperwork’s in!
Kitsap County applied yesterday to move to Phase 3 of the Governor’s Safe Start Plan. We don’t know how long approval will take, but we want to help your business be ready to open as soon as we are notified.
Need to know how many customers are allowed? What percentage of your seating can be occupied? Are masks required for your staff? How do you write a COVID-19 safety plan?
Kitsap County’s Recovery Playbook is one-stop shopping to help you navigate everything related to opening your business. We’ve pulled together all the guidance, rules and just plain good ideas, and put them in one place for you.
Check out the Playbook at kcowa.us/recoveryplaybook
For more details on the county's Phase 3 application, read the full press release at: https://lnks.gd/2/J-h5nR

 

Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/291b554



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 19


Positive tests to date: 187


Negative tests to date: 9,047

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Phase 3 application submitted
Kitsap County submitted its application to state Secretary of Health John Wiesman today, June 19, requesting approval to move from Phase 2 to Phase 3 of the state's Safe Start COVID-19 recovery plan. 
The Kitsap Public Health Board and Kitsap County Board of Commissioners voted to approve the request in separate meetings earlier today. A decision is expected from Secretary Wiesman within a few days. 
Businesses and organizations eligible to open under Phase 3 must first implement all sector-specific guidance from the state included in the Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook and complete a safety plan.  
 
Inslee extends waiver of job search requirements
On June 18, Governor Jay Inslee announced the extension of 23 proclamations in response to the continuing COVID-19 pandemic. The extensions were approved by the state Legislature and include the waiver of job search requirements for those receiving unemployment benefits. The extensions are in effect until July 1. More details are available on the governor’s website.

 

Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/291831f



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 18


Positive tests to date: 184


Negative tests to date: 8,918

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Reminder: Special meeting on Phase 3 application
The Health Board is considering a Phase 3 application at a special meeting scheduled tomorrow, June 19, at 9 a.m. The meeting agenda has been updated to include the Safe Start Phase 3 application and 2,317 public comments received as of June 17.
The public can listen to the meeting using a computer or phone and submit verbal comments during the time allotted for public comment. Zoom instructions are listed at the end of the meeting agenda. The meeting will be broadcast live on Comcast channel 12, WAVE channel 3, and the BKAT website.
The Kitsap Board of County Commissioners will hold a special meeting immediately following at 10 a.m. to consider accepting the recommendation of the Kitsap County Public Health Officer and Health Board to submit the Phase 3 application to the state Secretary of Health. This meeting will be held via Zoom. Password: 723424; Webinar ID: 850 2203 3192. For audio only, dial 1-253-215-8782.
 
Updated religious and faith-based services guidance 
Gov. Jay Inslee announced updated health guidance for religious and faith-based services today as more counties move forward under Washington’s Safe Start recovery plan.
Phase 3 would permit indoor capacity of 50% or 400 people, whichever is less. Health requirements for social distancing and facial coverings will remain the same as the guidance for previous phases.
For services taking place in modified Phase 1 and Phase 2 counties, indoor services are permitted at 25% capacity or 200 people, whichever is less. 
 
Who should get tested for COVID-19?
People who have symptoms consistent with COVID-19 are encouraged to get tested for COVID-19, even if their symptoms are mild. Follow these steps to get tested:

Call your regular health care provider to talk about your symptoms.
If you do not have a health care provider, you can become established with a provider or contact an urgent care clinic near you.
If you do not have health insurance, visit Kitsap Public Health District's Health Insurance page for information about enrollment assistance.

View a list of COVID-19 test providers in Kitsap County. For more information about COVID-19 testing, including costs, visit the Washington State Department of Health’s website.

 

Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2915483



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 17


Positive tests to date: 182


Negative tests to date: 8,655

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


DATA REPORTING NOTE:
On June 16, the Washington State Department of Health discovered that the negative COVID-19 test totals it was reporting included results from serology testing for COVID-19 antibodies. This resulted in an over reporting of the number of individuals who have tested negative for COVID-19. The Department of Health has removed serology test results from its overall negative test counts. Kitsap County’s negative test total was reduced from 9,851 on June 16 to 8,655 on June 17. Read the statement from the Washington State Department of Health.






 
Preparing for Phase 3
As we prepare for the next phase of the Safe Start plan, local businesses can continue to reference the Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook for guidance. The Playbook was last updated on June 12, 2020.
The Playbook was developed by the Kitsap County Department of Emergency Management to help our community understand and safely embark upon our phased opening. It includes everything from overarching guidance for every individual and employer, to industry-specific recommendations for each phase of the Safe Start plan.








 
Phase 3 business templates available
On June 5, Gov. Jay Inslee released a template for businesses in Phase 3 of the Washington “Safe Start” plan. Each business or entity operating in Phase 3 must develop a written safety plan outlining how its workplace will prevent the spread of COVID-19. A business may fill out this template to fulfill the requirement or may develop its own safety plan.
 
FAQ on face coverings for workers
The Washington State Department of Labor and Industries has provided a list of common questions and answers to help with implementation of the Safe Start order in the workplace. This information is being updated as new questions come in.
Coverings/masks must be used when in proximity to other people, in accordance with the L&I guidance chart. Businesses and workers should also use the following guidance documents for additional information on required face coverings and mask use based on the level of risk for various job tasks:

Which Mask for Which Task?
Washington Coronavirus Hazard Considerations for Employers (except COVID-19 care in hospitals & clinics)

If you have further questions regarding workplace safety, please call 1-800-4 BE SAFE (1-800-423-7233).

 

Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2911aca



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 16


Positive tests to date: 181


Negative tests to date: 9,851

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Special meeting for Phase 3 application
An agenda and Zoom login instructions have been posted for the special Kitsap Public Health Board meeting scheduled for 9 a.m. Friday, June 19. The agenda includes consideration of an application to move from Phase 2 to Phase 3 of the state’s Safe Start plan for COVID-19 recovery. In addition to Zoom, the virtual meeting will be streamed live on the BKAT website, Comcast channel 12, and WAVE Broadband channel 3.
The Board of County Commissioners has scheduled a special meeting immediately following at 10 a.m. to consider accepting the recommendation of the Kitsap County Public Health Officer and Board of Health to submit the Phase 3 application, if approved, to the state Secretary of Health. The special meeting will be held virtually on Zoom. Access the meeting information here. 
The public is encouraged to submit written comments regarding the potential move to Phase 3 using an online comment form. Comments received after 10 p.m., June 17, 2020 may not be made available to Health Board members prior to the June 19 special meeting, but will still be recorded. Read this fact sheet for more information about the Phase 3 application process.
 
Stop the spread by staying local
As counties are opening and the weather warms up, it’s a good time to check out a local park or camping area. But don’t get too far out of town — COVID-19 is spreading at different rates in different counties.
Be prepared and mostly self-sufficient when you set out for your local park or camping trip. Since many towns and businesses are not open, or not open to their typical capacity, it may not be as easy as you remember to pick up a jug of water, snacks, or meals along the way. There are no guarantees on the restroom facilities. Bring your own soap, water, hand sanitizer, and toilet paper.
Part of being prepared is making sure the camp or park you are headed to is open before you leave. This blog post from the Washington State Department of Health has tips to help keep everyone safe while you enjoy the outdoors.

 

Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/290e15a



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 15


Positive tests to date: 178


Negative tests to date: 9,654

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Kitsap Public Health Board accepting comments on move to Safe Start Phase 3
The Kitsap Public Health Board is accepting public comments regarding a potential application to move Kitsap County from Phase 2 to Phase 3 of the state's Safe Start plan for COVID-19 recovery. 
Kitsap County will become eligible to apply for Phase 3 on or after June 18. The Health Board anticipates considering a Phase 3 application at a special meeting, immediately followed by a Board of County Commissioners' meeting, scheduled for June 19. Full meeting details will be posted later this week.
Submit your comment using the online form or mail to Kitsap Public Health Board, Attention: PHASE 3, 345 6th Street, Suite 300, Bremerton, WA 98337.



 
Washington Mask Challenge continues 
Lieutenant Governor Cyrus Habib announced the Washington Mask Challenge on April 29. This is a statewide homemade mask-making initiative to encourage the general public to make, wear, and donate cloth masks.
There are still many organizations in our state that need cloth masks right now. These include nursing homes, homelessness service organizations, food banks, grocery stores, restaurants, and more. Whether you are a mask maker or an organization that needs masks, here's how to participate.






 

Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/290b1ef



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 14


Positive tests to date: 175


Negative tests to date: 9,495

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Kitsap Transit summer 2020 survey
Kitsap Transit has launched a new community survey to learn about the choices Kitsap County residents and workers are making during the COVID-19 pandemic and how their travel choices may be affected by the pandemic.
The survey will shed light on public perceptions of health risk and attitudes toward behaviors aimed at preventing the spread of COVID-19. The Kitsap Public Health District is proud to partner with Kitsap Transit to deepen their understanding of the community and use findings to help direct other outreach efforts.
Those who complete the survey can enter a drawing for a $150 grocery gift card. Customers who lack access to the Internet or need assistance taking the survey may contact Kitsap Transit Customer Service at 1.800.501.RIDE. The survey closes on Sunday, June 21. 
 

 
It’s #2020CENSUS week!
Have you responded to the 2020 U.S. Census yet? If not, go to https://www.2020census.gov/. It takes less than 10 minutes to complete and the impact of your answers lasts a decade. Respond online, by phone or mail. Information is available in multiple languages.
Data from the 2020 census helps determine where critical federal funding is distributed for hospitals, fire departments, schools, roads, veterans, human services and much more. 
Responses to the census are confidential. Learn more about Kitsap’s Complete County Committee and local efforts at https://kitsap2020census.com/. Kitsap counts! Be counted!
 
Checking in on our habits
Our regular routines have been disrupted by COVID-19 for a number of months. Now, as we begin to step back into some of our regular routines, it might be time to check in on the new habits we’ve developed.
This blog post from the Washington State Department of Health may help you choose wisely what habits to continue as we move forward.

 

Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2909c13



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 13


Positive tests to date: 175


Negative tests to date: 9,214

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Payroll Protection Program (PPP) funds still available
The Paycheck Protection Program offers loans designed to provide incentive for small businesses to keep their workers on the payroll. SBA will forgive loans if all employees are kept on the payroll for eight weeks and the money is used for payroll, rent, mortgage interest, or utilities.
There is more than $130 billion in PPP funding still available. The Small Business Administration, which administers the program, can help you with the PPP application or loan forgiveness process. The last date on which a PPP loan application can be approved is June 30, 2020. 
Do you have about the PPP? Check out this new (June 12) presentation with guidance and answers to FAQs from the Kitsap Economic Development Alliance.
 
Personal responsibility in Phase 2
As restrictions ease, it can be easy to revert back to old habits. But, now more than ever, we need to continue to maintain physical distancing, wash hands frequently and wear face coverings when physical distancing isn’t possible. Several states are reporting a significant uptick in COVID-19 cases. We all can help keep a resurgence of the virus down by following these basics.
Thank you for doing your part to keep our community safe and healthy!
Read the Department of Health’s blog post about the top five things to know about COVID-19.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2907d07



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 12


Positive tests to date: 174


Negative tests to date: 9,145

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Where to get tested for COVID-19
Over 40 COVID-19 testing sites are currently operating in Kitsap County. Testing is available for those experiencing COVID-like symptoms. Anyone who thinks they need to be tested should contact their primary health care provider to ask about testing. 
If you do not have a primary health care provider and are experiencing COVID-like symptoms, you can become an established primary care patient at a local clinic or visit an urgent care or emergency department.
A comprehensive list of COVID-19 testing sites by geographic region is available under Section 2 of the Kitsap County COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard.
 
National Get Outdoors Day
Reminder: Tomorrow, Saturday, June 13, is our final free day of June for National Get Outdoors Day. You won't need a Discover Pass for day-use visits to Washington State Parks. #GetOutdoorsDay
 
Congratulations to our 2020 graduates!
Congratulations to all the students graduating this spring at our local high schools and colleges!
The North Kitsap School District’s transportation team created this great art installation with their buses to celebrate the Kingston and North Kitsap High School Class of 2020 graduates. Thanks for letting us share this outstanding photo!
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2904e21



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 11


Positive tests to date: 174


Negative tests to date: 8,991

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Food benefits for families
Families in Washington state will soon have food benefits available to them to help buy groceries while children have been home from school due to COVID-19. Called Pandemic EBT, or P-EBT, these food benefits are available to families with children who are eligible for schools’ free or reduced-price meal programs.
Most families who already receive Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits, also known as SNAP or Basic Food in Washington state, and whose children already receive free or reduced-price meals do not need to apply. Other families, including those whose children attend a school where meals are free for all students, will need to apply. 
Families who need to apply or who have other questions can call the DSHS Customer Service Contact Center at 877-501-2233 between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday-Friday (except observed holidays).
 



Planning guide to open Washington schools
The Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI) released a district planning guide that provides a path that schools, educators and families need to plan for the next few months and upcoming school year.
This guidance is specific to K–12 public or private schools regardless of what phase or county they are in. Counties in Phase 1 or modified Phase 1 may need to implement additional precautions. The local health department will determine, in consultation with the state health department, if or how schools in these counties should operate.
School districts are required to adopt reopening plans through local board resolution. Those plans need to be on file with OSPI and the State Board of Education within two weeks of a district’s fall starting date. Information about the required plans will be forthcoming in early Summer 2020.





 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/290193d



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 10


Positive tests to date: 172


Negative tests to date: 8,748

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
COVID-19 case reporting update
On June 10, Kitsap Public Health updated its data dashboards to display COVID-19 cases by specimen collection date (the date a healthcare provider collected a sample from the patient for testing). Cases were previously displayed by the date they were confirmed by a laboratory.
In some cases, the specimen collection date for a case is several days earlier than the lab confirmation date. The overall number of cases reported for Kitsap County remains the same. The reporting change was made to more closely align with the state Department of Health's dashboards.






Earlier today, Kitsap Public Health District Health Officer Dr. Susan Turner joined state Sen. Emily Randall and Tacoma-Pierce County Health Officer Dr. Anthony Chen for a Zoom conversation about COVID-19 response. Watch the conversation on Facebook.







 






Inslee extends proclamation protecting high-risk workers





Gov. Jay Inslee announced the extension of a proclamation June 9 giving high-risk workers the right to protect themselves from COVID-19 without jeopardizing their employment status or loss of income.
The proclamation provides older workers and those with underlying health conditions a series of rights and protections, including:

The choice of an alternative work assignment, including telework, alternative or remote work locations if feasible, and social distancing measures.
The ability to use any accrued leave or unemployment benefits if an alternative work assignment is not feasible and the employee is unable to safely work. Employers must maintain health insurance benefits while high-risk employees are off the job.
Employers are prohibited from permanently replacing high-risk employees.

The proclamation was extended through August 1, 2020.
 








 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28fea4d



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 9


Positive tests to date: 172


Negative tests to date: 8,748

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard



 





Reminder: COVID-19 still spreading in our community
Today, June 9, Kitsap Public Health District posted six new COVID-19 cases confirmed between June 6 and June 8. This is a reminder that COVID-19 is still spreading in our community.
While more businesses and activities are available under Phase 2, it is vital that we continue to take steps to protect our health and prevent COVID-19 from spreading:

Maintain six feet of distance from others in public whenever possible.
Wear a cloth face covering in places where physical distancing can’t be maintained. Be compassionate to people who cannot wear face coverings.
Wash hands frequently.
Stay home when sick.
Clean and disinfect frequently used objects and surfaces.
Cover coughs and sneezes.





 
Contact tracing to slow the spread
Contact tracing is one of the best tools we have to slow the spread of COVID-19 and prevent more people from getting sick. This fact sheet from Kitsap Public Health District explains how it works. Effective contact tracing depends on everyone’s participation. If you get a call from Kitsap Public Health, please answer.

 
Communicating with our faces covered
Non-verbal cues are an important part of how we connect and communicate with each other. Many of these — a smile, a gentle touch, leaning in close to whisper a secret — are either impossible from six feet away, or hidden by our cloth face coverings. For those who are deaf or hard of hearing and routinely read lips and facial expressions, it may be even more difficult to communicate.
If it is hard for you to hear when someone is wearing a mask, the Washington State Department of Health offers these tips to help. Find more COVID-19 information in American Sign Language on the their website.

 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28fb7bb



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 8


Positive tests to date: 166


Negative tests to date: 8,611

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard



 





Be prepared for Phase 3
Kitsap County won’t be eligible to apply for Phase 3 of the state’s Safe Start plan until after June 18, but businesses can start preparing now. To be open under Phase 3, the state will require businesses to:

Create a written Safety Plan (template)
Follow any sector-specific guidance issued for Phase 2
Follow any additional sector-specific guidance issued for Phase 3 (watch for updates)

More workplace guidance is available at coronavirus.wa.gov and in the Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook. Learn more about what businesses and activities are permitted under Phase 3.
 








Kitsap County Parks team sports update

On June 6, Gov. Jay Inslee’s office issued new guidelines that allow youth sports teams to resume practice in those counties that are in Phase 2.
Kitsap County Parks is asking all of its athletic field user groups to submit a “return to play” safety plan to protect both participants and spectators; they'll begin reviewing the plans by early next week.
Kitsap County Parks is taking the following steps to get athletic user groups back on the fields in a safe and healthy manner:

Adding signage to encourage safe social distancing for participants and spectators
Installing hand sanitizer stations at the fields
Using fencing to block off bleachers
Disinfecting field restrooms frequently
Adding field markers and buffer zones to assist teams with social distancing while practicing

Kitsap County Parks thanks you for your patience and cooperation as we work together to safely reopen Kitsap County Parks Athletic Fields.




 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28f8b28



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 7


Positive tests to date: 166


Negative tests to date: 8,507

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Prevent the spread of COVID-19
While Kitsap is moving forward under the Safe Start plan, it is important to know that COVID-19 is still present in our community. Regardless of what phase is in effect, Kitsap residents are urged to:

Maintain six feet of distance from others in public whenever possible.

Wear a cloth face covering in places where physical distancing can’t be maintained. Be compassionate to people who cannot wear face coverings.
Stay home when sick.
Wash hands frequently.
Clean and disinfect frequently used objects and surfaces.
Cover coughs and sneezes.


Read more prevention guidance from the CDC.
 
Resources for you and your family
The Washington State Coronavirus Resource page contains links to programs and services that may be helpful for Washingtonians who are impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. 
You can find local community resources and assistance programs at the Kitsap County EOC's Coronavirus Resource and Information page and the Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares page.
 
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28f714c



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 6


Positive tests to date: 166


Negative tests to date: 8,371

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
COVID-19 information by phone
There are many online resources for up-to-date COVID-19 information, but this is not the only way to find out what is happening in Washington.
For questions about COVID-19 and how the virus is spread, please call 1-800-525-0127 and press # from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., seven days a week.
Text the word “Coronavirus” to 211211 to receive information and updates wherever you are. You will receive links to the latest information on COVID-19, including county-level updates, and resources for families, businesses, students, and more.
Please note that call centers cannot access COVID-19 testing results. For testing inquiries or results, please contact your health care provider. Call 911 only for emergencies. Emergency response is available 24/7.
 



COVID-19: From exposure to feeling better (video)
The Washington Department of Health gets a lot of questions from people about COVID-19, like what should I do if I get exposed? How long should I stay home? This video answers those questions.





 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28f55b3



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 5


Positive tests to date: 165


Negative tests to date: 8,192

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard



 
Guidance for sporting activities





Gov. Jay Inslee issued guidance today for sporting activities in Phases 2 and 3 under the Safe Start plan. The guidance covers professional sporting activities, youth team sports and adult recreational team sports. 
Additional Phase 2 business and recreational guidance can be found starting on page 85 of the Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Handbook, updated today.




When to get tested for COVID-19
Public health officials are encouraging everyone who has symptoms similar to COVID-19 to get tested. People should start by contacting their regular health care provider. Get a list of symptoms on the health district's webpage. 
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28f23b5



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 4


Positive tests to date: 164


Negative tests to date: 8,084

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


Health District Update
Kitsap Public Health has updated data in the Kitsap County COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard through May 30. The dashboard includes more than 30 charts highlighting key indicators related to COVID-19 in our community, including disease activity, health care system readiness, case investigations, testing availability, and more.
 
 
Washington State risk assessment dashboard updated
Gov. Jay Inslee and the state’s Joint Information Center have launched an updated version of the state’s COVID-19 risk assessment dashboard. The updated dashboard provides researchers and the public a better ability to see what’s happening at the regional and county level when it comes to COVID-19 activity, testing, and healthcare system readiness.
This new dashboard replaces the dial dashboard that was better suited for measuring statewide metrics. Additional metrics will be added or modified over time.
 




Free Fishing Weekend
Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife's "Free Fishing Weekend" is June 6-7, when fishing licenses are not required of anyone to fish in Washington. Free Fishing Weekend in Washington is always the first weekend after the first Monday in June.
Anglers will need to follow state guidelines by continuing to recreate in their local communities, traveling only with family or other members of their immediate household, and practicing physical distancing by keeping 6 feet apart. 
Check ahead of time to see if your preferred destination or launch is open. Some local marinas or facilities – including tribal lands – remain closed, and anglers should be prepared to change plans if their first choice is closed or too congested.
Please see the Fishing Regulation Pamphlet for all rules and restrictions.
 



First week of Phase 2 completed


Kitsap County is wrapping up its first week in Phase 2 of the state’s Safe Start Recovery Plan.


You can review guidance for businesses during Phase 2 beginning on page 86 in the Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook: kcowa.us/recoveryplaybook
Guidance for Individuals:

High Risk Populations - Continue to stay home, stay healthy
Recreation - All outdoor recreation involving fewer than 5 people outside the household
Gatherings - Gather with no more than 5 people outside your household per week
Travel - Essential travel and limited non-essential travel for Phase 1 and 2 permissible activities

To learn more about what is permitted in Phase 2, please visit Governor Inslee’s website at: https://bit.ly/2ZU4I9l
 


 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28eed6d



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 3


Positive tests to date: 164


Negative tests to date: 7,905

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
COVID-19 lab fees waived
State Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler issued an emergency order protecting consumers from receiving unexpected bills for COVID-19 lab fees. The emergency order recognizes that out-of-pocket financial costs may create barriers to COVID-19 testing and a challenge for public health's ability to track and reduce disease activity.
 
Inslee extends eviction moratorium





Gov. Jay Inslee extended protections for renters today as COVID-19 continues to impact the finances of Washingtonians statewide.
Proclamation 20-19.2 extends the prior eviction moratorium for 60 days (through August 1), and makes modifications to the prior moratorium. The proclamation also encourages landlords and tenants to communicate in good faith with one another, and to work together on the timing and terms of payment and repayment solutions.
 






New feature: Window on the Emergency Operations Center
Getting “The Right Stuff” to fight COVID 
If you’re going to do battle, you need the right stuff. In Army slang, that’s “beans and bullets.” In a medical emergency, it’s masks, gowns, ventilators, test kits, and everything else needed to keep doctors, nurses, and first responders doing their jobs safely.
The people who get these vital supplies are known as logisticians - and their battle takes place almost entirely out of public view. Logisticians working in the Kitsap County EOC have put in thousands of hours during the COVID crisis getting medical supplies and personal protective equipment (PPE) for all of those charged with responding during the crisis. 
In the past two months, logisticians have carried out a critical public safety mission in Kitsap County, distributing more than a quarter-million items of PPE for the county’s official emergency responders. No one knows how many cases of coronavirus have been avoided because logisticians managed to find and distribute the right safety equipment thus breaking the chain of infection.
Want to know more about the unsung heroes in logistics? Listen to this podcast from the Federal Emergency Management Agency that outlines how our federal counterparts move critical items quickly to where they’re most needed. 
Stay tuned to this channel for more inside information on the workings of your Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center.



 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28eb1bd



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 2


Positive tests to date: 163


Negative tests to date: 7,307

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Kitsap Safe Start plan update
Kitsap Public Health District received details of the Phase 3 application process today and shared the information with members of the Health Board during a meeting this afternoon. 


Kitsap County will become eligible to apply to move from Phase 2 to Phase 3 of the state’s Safe Start plan on/after June 18. The state requires counties to spend at least three weeks in each Safe Start phase and recommendations of approval from the local health officer and local health board may not occur before the county’s eligible date. Kitsap was approved for Phase 2 on May 28.



Kitsap Public Health District expects to have a Phase 3 application completed and sent to Kitsap Public Health Board members on June 18. The state requires counties to compile a rigorous list of data points and analysis related to COVID-19 disease activity, health care readiness, case and contact investigations, and other key metrics. See the Phase 3 application form and instructions for more information.


Several additional steps are required to submit the application to the state Secretary of Health for approval:

The health officer will provide a formal recommendation to the Health Board.
The Health Board must vote to approve the recommendation and application in an open public meeting.
If approved by the Health Board, the Kitsap County Board of Commissioners must vote to approve the application in an open public meeting.
If approved by the commissioners, the county will submit the application package to the state. 





Community members and businesses can help keep our county on track to qualify for Phase 3 by following Safe Start guidance and COVID-19 prevention steps, including maintaining physical distancing, washing hands frequently, and wearing cloth face coverings in crowded places. A spike in COVID-19 cases could prevent Kitsap from qualifying to move to the next phase.

 
Getting your COVID-19 test results
There has recently been some confusion about where to obtain test results after taking a COVID-19 test. Test providers and point-of-testing locations/vendors will contact you directly once results are available.
Some who were tested have reached out to Washington's 211 community resource phone line to access results. While 211 provides valuable COVID-19 information to the public, it does not provide test results and cannot access medical information.
 
Food assistance programs



As Washington’s communities join in cooperation and sacrifice to help each other and stop the spread of COVID-19, access to many resources and services once considered staples of daily life has been curtailed and, in some cases, completely cut off. 
Access to food is critical to help people weather this storm and support the effort to stop the COVID pandemic. Our state’s efforts ensure ongoing food security systems remain in place to meet the nutritional needs of all Washingtonians -- including children, seniors and people with low income.
The federal government has lifted many restrictions that may have disqualified some applicants from receiving benefits in the past. This USDA Food and Nutrition Service announcement outlines several of these new allowances made in the coronavirus emergency response. Anyone in need of nutritional support – even those who may have previously been denied – should inquire about benefits.



 
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28e81a1



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on June 1


Positive tests to date: 163


Negative tests to date: 7,232

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
COVID-19 update and discussion
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a virtual meeting from 12:30-1:45 p.m. on Tuesday, June 2. The agenda includes a COVID-19 update and discussion. The full meeting agenda, packet and Zoom login instructions will be posted at kitsappublichealth.org.
 




Returning to childcare
Some childcare centers have remained open so essential workers can continue to report to their jobs. With summer coming, the Washington State Department of Health has updated guidance on how childcare centers, summer day camps, and youth programs can operate safely during the COVID-19 pandemic. This guidance does not address overnight camps, youth sports and athletics, or activities included as part of K-12 basic education or special education programs.
Families who are still able to keep their children home should continue to do so. This won’t be possible for everyone, especially as more and more businesses open again. If your kids do go to childcare, send them to programs in your local geographic area.
When you drop off your child at a childcare facility, expect to see some changes. Children will need to have their temperature taken before leaving home or upon arrival at the childcare center. Read this blog post to learn more about the new guidance issued from the Department of Health.



 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28e5a65



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 31


Positive tests to date: 162


Negative tests to date: 7,118

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard





 
Update on camping in state parks
Some state camping opens Monday, June 1. The Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission announced camping will reopen in campgrounds located in counties in Phase 2 of Gov. Inslee's Safe Start recovery plan. In Kitsap County, those include Blake Island, Manchester, Scenic Beach and Kitsap Memorial state parks. Check the State Parks website for details and reservations. 





 
Increase of wipes and cleaning products found in Kitsap County wastewater
Kitsap County’s Manchester Wastewater Treatment Plant has experienced a decrease in performance, which may be related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Microscopic exams of the wastewater show unusual pollutants including cotton fibers and polymers that may come from disinfectant wipes or cleaning products. This could be from an increase of cleaning wipe use in general and wipes being flushed. Some pollutants may be from water dumped after cleaning with wipes or other disinfectants.
The Washington State Department of Ecology has recognized the Manchester Treatment Plan for outstanding performance the last 24 years. The Kitsap County Sewer Utility asks our customers to help us keep this record by practicing good habits at home.
Please be mindful of what goes down the drain. Don’t flush sanitizing wipes and avoid using the toilet to dispose of harsh cleaning products. Toilet paper is the ONLY product that is safe to flush. Wipes, even those marketed as flushable, can cause clogs in your plumbing and in sewer and septic systems.
 
Useful Links

Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28e429c



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 30


Positive tests to date: 162


Negative tests to date: 6,876

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Inslee announcement on Safe Start recovery plan
Gov. Jay Inslee announced on Friday that Washington counties are not automatically moving to Phase 2 of the state’s Safe Start recovery plan on June 1. Kitsap was granted a variance to move to Phase 2 last week, but counties with higher infection rates will remain in Phase 1, even as the governor's Stay Home, Stay Safe order expires at midnight Sunday. 
Phase 2 counties must remain in Phase 2 for at least three weeks before becoming eligible for Phase 3. 
 
Coping with quarantine
As we gradually increase the amount of time spent in public life, some us may get exposed to COVID-19. If someone you know tests positive for COVID-19 and you have had close contact with that person, the health department will ask you to stay in your home for 14 days. If quarantining in your home is not possible for you, then they will help you find a safe place to stay.
Here are some things to remember about quarantine from the Washington State Department of Health.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28e1840



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 29


Positive tests to date: 162


Negative tests to date: 6,735

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 surveillance report - also available in Spanish

View the new COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard


 
Kitsap County COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard
Kitsap Public Health launched a new Kitsap County COVID-19 Risk Assessment Dashboard with key indicators related to COVID-19 in Kitsap County. The dashboard displays many of the same metrics that are being monitored at the state level as we move forward under the Safe Start plan. Charts include information about:

COVID-19 disease activity (cases, hospitalizations, deaths)
Mobility data
Testing capacity and availability
Case and contact investigations
Risk to vulnerable populations
Health care system readiness

Data in the dashboard will be refreshed weekly moving ahead, with the next update planned for June 3. Kitsap Public Health continues to post daily case updates on its COVID-19 page.
 
 
Phase 2 activities at a glance
Click the image below to open it in a separate window. This image will be updated as needed, so we recommend checking our website for the latest version: kcowa.us/covid19resources.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28ddf9b



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 28


Positive tests to date: 162


Negative tests to date: 6,578

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
 
Kitsap County is now in Phase 2 of the Safe Start Plan
Kitsap County’s request to move to Phase 2 of the state’s Safe Start plan for COVID-19 recovery was approved this morning by Washington State Secretary of Health John Wiesman.
Approval is effective immediately, meaning Kitsap County is now in Phase 2. View the full press release from the Kitsap Public Health District.
 
Moving to Phase 2
As Kitsap County moves into Phase 2 of the Safe Start COVID-19 recovery plan, some local businesses will reopen or begin to expand their services. As the approval letter from the state Secretary of Health noted, however, a business may reopen only “after it can implement the state guidelines for a safe start."
We gathered those guidelines in one place, the Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook, to make them easier for local businesses to find. They are also available on the state’s Safe Start page.
Businesses that are state licensed or certified professional should check with their licensing or certifying state agency for guidance. If no state guidance is available yet, the business cannot open under the governor's plan. 

For further clarification, Washington state has a portal to submit questions at https://coronavirus.wa.gov/how-you-can-help/covid-19-business-and-worker-inquiries.
The Kitsap County Coronavirus Resource and Information page offers newly updated links to state and local resources.


Businesses that still have questions about their status, contact the Kitsap Public Health District’s Liaison Officer at KPHD-LOFR@kitsappublichealth.org.

 




Back to Business Toolkit
During the Stay Home, Stay Healthy closures, Kitsap chambers of commerce rallied to support local businesses in not only strengthening their resiliency but also implementing new and creative strategies to stay afloat while supporting their employees. Read their letter to the community.
The local chambers of commerce recently compiled a Back to Business Toolkit that offers a variety of resources for successfully reopening including:

Required cleaning supplies and equipment
Operational changes to consider
How to implement safety standards for employees
Advertising and marketing a reopening
Printable signage

Chambers are also promoting a new site at kitsapcovid19.com and a local COVID-19 Business Support Facebook page.
Kitsap businesses have sacrificed much during the Stay Home, Stay Healthy closure. Now as we move through the Stay Safe plan and get our economy moving again, we must continue to take safety precautions to protect our community and prevent a rebound of COVID-19 so our businesses can move towards recovery.



 
Thank you, Kitsap County!
The County’s application for a variance to move to Phase 2 is approved! More businesses are now allowed to open or expand their operations. We know that this time created unparalleled challenges. But, because you stayed home, the cases of coronavirus in Kitsap County remain very low.
Thank you for weathering this storm – we know that sunny days are ahead. Together, we will continue to #BlockTheReboundKitsap.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28dd400


Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28db226



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 27


Positive tests to date: 162


Negative tests to date: 6,401

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
Phase 2 variance application submitted









The Kitsap Public Health Board and the Kitsap County Board of Commissioners approved a COVID-19 County Variance request in separate meetings held Wednesday, May 27.
The Kitsap Public Health District administrator has submitted Kitsap County’s variance request to the Washington State Department of Health for review. The state Secretary of Health will make the final decision on whether the application is approved, approved with modifications, or denied.

If approved, the variance would allow Kitsap County to immediately move from Phase 1 to Phase 2 under Governor Inslee’s Safe Start plan for recovery. Kitsap County will remain in Phase 1 until the Secretary of Health’s decision is announced.
Find more information in this Kitsap Public Health District statement.










 
Staying home with teenagers
Our teens are experiencing things we never experienced. What are your favorite memories of being a teenager? Sports? Canceled. Hanging out with your friends? Stay 6 feet away. Parties? No gatherings. Getting a movie from Blockbuster? Closed. (Not because of the pandemic, but still.)
Read this new blog post from Washington Department of Health to get tips and advice for understanding your teens during this difficult time.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28d81f5



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 26


Positive tests to date: 162


Negative tests to date: 6,326

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
Kitsap Public Health Board meeting
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a special meeting on Wednesday, May 27, from 1-2 p.m. to consider a COVID-19 county variance request to move from Phase 1 to Phase 2 under the state’s Safe Start plan.
The meeting packet posted Tuesday includes a formal health officer recommendation, the draft "Kitsap County Request for COVID-19 Variance to Move From Phase 1 to Phase 2" with supporting documentation, as well as written public comments received. The meeting will be streamed live on the BKAT website and cable channels.
Based on the outcome of the public health board meeting, the Kitsap County Board of Commissioners will hold a virtual public meeting later that day at 4 p.m. to discuss the issue.
 

 
Recovery Playbook

Kitsap County’s new Pathway to Recovery Playbook provides one-stop shopping for everything you need to know about doing business as we move forward.
It includes guidance for keeping your employees and customers safe after our county is approved for Phase 2 and beyond. We've done the research and put it in one place for easy access.

 



Making history
Like many other museums around the world, the Kitsap County Historical Society and Museum is collecting digital photos, signs, stories, musings, essays and other documents related to life during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Once the museum is able to open to the public again, the society can also accept donations of physical items. Email curator@kitsapmuseum.org with contributions and questions.
 





Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28d6958



Kitsap County publishes a ‘Playbook’ for reopening
Document provides key guidelines for local businesses and individuals
May 26, 2020
 
(KITSAP COUNTY, Wash.) -- The Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center (KCEOC) has compiled a Pathway to Recovery Playbook to provide guidance for the way forward as the county nears a move to Phase 2 of Gov. Jay Inslee’s Safe Start plan.
The playbook organizes critical information from a variety of local, state and federal sources in one place to help Kitsap businesses prepare for reopening. It includes everything from overarching guidance for every individual and employer, to industry-specific recommendations for each phase of the Safe Start plan. The playbook will be updated periodically as the situation changes and new guidelines are issued.
The KCEOC, in partnership with the Kitsap Public Health District (KPHD), has been working since early in the pandemic to ensure the county would be well-positioned to progress through the phases as soon as safely possible. Among many other tasks, that work included compiling data, obtaining personal protective equipment and test kits, and publishing the Pathway to Recovery Playbook.
Officials also note that a future uptick in cases could cause state and local health authorities to reinstitute restrictions. “To keep us on track, businesses should follow the industry-specific guidelines for reopening,” notes Lis Klute, Director of Kitsap County Department of Emergency Management and member of KCEOC's Unified Command for the local response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Those guidelines can be found in the Playbook.
Kitsap County residents have a role to play, too; the public has slowed the spread of COVID-19 by adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidelines, and continuing to do so will be critical to further progress. “We must not relax our commitment to public health measures like frequently washing and sanitizing hands, maintaining six feet of separation from other people, and wearing cloth face coverings when appropriate,” adds Klute.
The Kitsap Public Health Board will consider the variance application during a virtual meeting on Wednesday, May 27. The health board is taking public comments on the application via email to pio@kitsappublichealth.org or online by clicking here.  Based on the outcome of the public health board meeting, the Kitsap County Board of Commissioners will hold a virtual public meeting later that day at 4:00 p.m. to discuss the issue.
Get more information about Phase 2 in the Pathway to Recovery Playbook or by reading Gov. Inslee's Safe Start plan. 
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28d4de6



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 25


Positive tests to date: 162


Negative tests to date: 6,239

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
Kitsap Public Health Board Meeting
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a special meeting on Wednesday, May 27, from 1-2 p.m. to consider a COVID-19 county variance request. 
The public can submit written comments prior to the meeting using an online form or by email or mail. See the meeting agenda for full details.
 
 
Memorial Day
“The nation will remain the land of the free only so long as it is the home of the brave.” - Elmer Davis, news reporter, author, and Director of the United States Office of War Information during World War IIThis Memorial Day may look and feel a little different than previous ones, but we can still salute our fallen brothers and sisters. Today, we thank and honor those who fought for our country.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28d1bf0



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 23


Positive tests to date: 160


Negative tests to date: 6,160

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


NOTE: The positive COVID-19 test total for Kitsap County was reduced from 161 to 160 on May 22. One previously reported Kitsap case was determined to not be residing in Kitsap and was reassigned. Data dashboard charts were adjusted accordingly.
 
Kitsap Public Health Board Meeting
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a special meeting on Wednesday, May 27, from 1-2 p.m. to consider a COVID-19 county variance request. 
The public can submit written comments prior to the meeting using an online form or by email or mail. See the meeting agenda for full details.
 




 
Keep your hands clean
Although it may be possible to get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it, and then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes, COVID-19 does not spread easily that way. And you can prevent that kind of exposure by being sure to wash your hands before you touch your face.

If your skin is healthy and you don’t touch your face, you can’t get COVID-19 just by touching something with the virus on it. So for most situations — like driving, running errands, using an ATM, pumping gas, or pushing a shopping cart — wearing gloves is not a helpful way to protect yourself. It would be more helpful to use hand sanitizer frequently while running errands and be careful not to touch your face. Then, be sure to wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds when you get home!
 






Eid Mubarak to those celebrating in Kitsap!

 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28d1c61



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 23


Positive tests to date: 160


Negative tests to date: 6,022

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


NOTE: The positive COVID-19 test total for Kitsap County was reduced from 161 to 160 on May 22. One previously reported Kitsap case was determined to not be residing in Kitsap and was reassigned. Data dashboard charts were adjusted accordingly.
 
Kitsap Public Health Board Meeting
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a special meeting on Wednesday, May 27, from 1-2 p.m. to consider a COVID-19 county variance request. 
The public can submit written comments prior to the meeting using an online form or by email or mail. See the meeting agenda for full details.
 
Unemployment fraud affecting many Kitsap County residents
The Kitsap County Sheriff’s Office has received more than 300 reports from county residents who have had false unemployment claims filed under their name with the Washington State Employee Security Department.
Washington State agencies have not experienced any recent data breach. Instead, fraudsters are using information gleaned from other sources and previous breaches to apply for unemployment benefits.
Follow these instructions to learn how to check if you or your family were affected and what to do if you were.
 
Two cases of Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in children in Washington
The Washington State Department of Health (DOH), Snohomish Health District, and Public Health-Seattle & King County have confirmed the first two cases in Washington state of a serious inflammatory disorder that afflicts children and is linked to COVID-19.
A Snohomish County resident and a King County resident received treatment at Seattle Children’s Hospital for Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C). One patient is under the age of 10 and the other is between 10 and 19.
Find more information about MIS-C from the CDC.
 
EMS is open for business
Emergency Medical System (EMS) responders are on medicine’s “front line” 24-hours a day, seven days a week. During an emergency, they bring us immediate, life-saving care. 
Despite the COVID-19 outbreak, EMS responders continue to deliver emergency care. However, some people with medical emergencies are not calling 911 when they need it because they are worried about getting exposed to COVID-19 in an ambulance or hospital. Unfortunately, that has led to an increase in the number of people dying at home — often unnecessarily. EMS leaders are reporting that those seeking help are significantly sicker because they are waiting longer to call 911, especially those experiencing cardiac events or strokes.
If you have a medical emergency, call 911. Our emergency medical responders are doing everything they can to make it safe for you.
 
May 17–23 is EMS Week!
Now, more than ever, we thank these brave men and women who are there for us, often on the worst day of our lives. Please thank the EMS heroes in your community by sending your best wishes for their safety and health.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28cf946



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 22


Positive tests to date: 160


Negative tests to date: 5,932

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


NOTE: The positive COVID-19 test total for Kitsap County was reduced from 161 to 160 on May 22. One previously reported Kitsap case was determined to not be residing in Kitsap and was reassigned. Data dashboard charts were adjusted accordingly.
 
Kitsap Public Health Board Meeting
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a special meeting on Wednesday, May 27, from 1-2 p.m. to consider a COVID-19 county variance request. The public can submit written comments prior to the meeting using an online form or by email or mail. See the meeting agenda for full details.
 

The Kitsap County Pathway to Recovery Playbook was developed by the Kitsap County Department of Emergency Management to help our community understand and safely embark upon our phased reopening. It includes everything from overarching guidance for every individual and employer, to industry-specific recommendations for each phase of the Safe Start plan. It will be updated periodically as the situation changes and new guidelines are issued.
 
Washington State Ferries holiday travel reminder
State ferries typically welcome about half a million riders over the long Memorial Day weekend, but nothing’s typical right now. Under the governor’s “Stay Home, Stay Healthy” emergency order, Washington State Ferries (WSF) continue to encourage everyone to ride for essential purposes only. 
All ferry riders are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings for the health and safety of themselves and WSF employees.
Ferries remain on winter schedules through June 20 with reduced service on several central Puget Sound routes. 
 



Staying Positive! Stress management advice
We have all worked hard to flatten the curve and many of us are feeling cabin fever. Deana Enebo-Short, Clinical Director with the Kitsap County Critical Incident Stress Management Team, shares advice on managing your emotions and mental health during times of extreme stress. #BlockTheReboundKitsap





 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28cd3b1



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 21


Positive tests to date: 161


Negative tests to date: 5,774

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


Health District Update
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a special meeting on Wednesday, May 27, from 1-2 p.m. to consider a COVID-19 county variance request. The public can submit written comments prior to the meeting using an online form or by email or mail. See the meeting agenda for full details.
 
 
Kitsap Transit fare-free period extended through June 30
Kitsap Transit is extending its free-fare period through June 30 to help limit the spread of COVID-19. The agency stopped collecting fares on March 23.
The temporary fare-free policy applies to all services, including Routed, ACCESS, Worker/Driver, vanpool, ferries and the Annapolis Park & Ride. For more information, visit kitsaptransit.com/COVID-19.
 
Rental assistance resources
Rental assistance resources are available for those having difficulty paying rent due to the COVID-19 crisis. This information is also available in Spanish.
People who live within Bremerton city limits may apply for help from the Bremerton Housing Authority (BHA). If the application is approved, BHA will pay 70 percent of the applicant's rent for up to three months. Visit the BHA website or call 360-473-0325 for more information.
Kitsap County residents who live outside Bremerton city limits may request help from Kitsap Community Resources (KCR). If the application is approved, KCR will pay 100 percent of rent for one month, and possibly a portion of rent for up to two more months. View the guidelines or call 360-473-2056 for more information. 
 
Increased poison exposures during COVID-19
New data released this week by the Washington Poison Center (WAPC) shows an increase in poison exposures during the COVID-19 pandemic. Increases in exposures to household cleaning and disinfectant products, bleach, rubbing alcohol, and hand sanitizer may be attributed to COVID-19 transmission concerns and precautions.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28c9cad



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 20


Positive tests to date: 161


Negative tests to date: 5,633

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
Update on variance application
Kitsap Public Health District officials have made progress compiling the information necessary to apply for a variance that would allow Kitsap County from Phase 1 to Phase 2 under the governor’s Safe Start plan for recovery. The Health District will complete a draft application prior to the health officer making a formal recommendation to the Kitsap Public Health Board. The Health Board is tentatively scheduled to meet on May 27 to discuss the Phase 2 variance. Meeting information will be distributed when details are confirmed.
The variance application contains a rigorous list of questions and data requests to justify why and how a county is ready to move from Phase 1 to Phase 2 earlier than other counties in the state. You can view the variance application instructions issued by the state and the variance application form to learn more about the process.
These are key steps necessary for a county to apply:



 
Talk like a public health professional
Have you been talking so much about COVID-19 to your family and friends that you’re starting to sound like a professional? Ready to take your language to the next level?
Read this new blog post from Washington Department of Health to learn how to use some commonly-confused public health terms and phrases.
 





Update on unemployment imposter fraud

The Employment Security Department (ESD) has experienced a dramatic rise in “imposter fraud," where an individual uses stolen personal information to fraudulently apply for unemployment benefits. ESD Commissioner Suzi LeVine released an update Monday about the additional steps ESD is taking to protect people.
Read more about imposter fraud and report it at esd.wa.gov/fraud.

 
Staying Positive! 
Nowadays, most people don’t think twice about using safety measures like hard hats, helmets, safety glasses, and seat belts. The same idea can be applied to your personal responsibility towards reducing the spread of coronavirus.
As restrictions ease, be smart and safe when you leave home. Physical distancing remains the most important tool, but you can also practice good hygiene and wear face coverings to stay safe and #BlockTheReboundKitsap.

"The Proud Tradition" by Larry Anderson in downtown Bremerton
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28c4218



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 18


Positive tests to date: 160


Negative tests to date: 5,354

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
When to use face coverings
Kitsap Public Health District updated its COVID-19 page and produced a printable fact sheet with recommendations regarding face coverings. 
The health district recommends you:

Continue to use physical distancing and frequent handwashing to protect your health and help slow the spread of COVID-19.
Wear a cloth face covering: carry a face covering with you and wear it in places where you cannot keep a safe distance from others.
Be kind. Some people cannot wear face coverings. Show compassion toward others. Focus on making good decisions for you and your family.

 

Staying Positive!
The Krazy Kreatures in Kingston are protecting their health too! #Blockthereboundkitsap


 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28c13c6



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 17


Positive tests to date: 160


Negative tests to date: 5,246

Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
Distancing measures remain critical as COVID-19 transmission persists
A new statewide report shows COVID-19 transmission is persisting in western Washington and slowly increasing in eastern Washington. The measure of how many new infections a single COVID-19 case will produce – known as the effective reproductive number – has not changed significantly in either region since the last statewide report, and continues to be higher than ideal.
“The new report is one more data point emphasizing how critical physical distancing and other disease control measures continue to be,” said Secretary of Health John Wiesman. “We’ve seen some success in our state because of the work each and every one of us is doing to stop the spread of the virus, and an exponential increase in cases is still a possibility. I’m asking everyone to keep up the good work to protect their families and communities.”
 
Practice physical distancing by keeping extra space between yourself and others to reduce the risk of getting or spreading COVID-19.


Stay home whenever possible.


Keep at least 6 feet of space between yourself and others.


Avoid crowded areas.


Greet people without touching.


Help family and friends who need assistance staying home.


 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28bfde1



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 16


Positive tests to date: 159

Negative tests to date: 5,167
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish





 
Helping kids wear cloth face coverings
When there's a chance you won't be able to keep six feet between yourself and others while in public, face coverings are recommended. Even for kids, if they are more than two years old.
Follow these recommendations from the Washington Department of Health to help your child adjust to wearing a cloth face covering.
 





Misinformation circulating about quarantine orders and facilities





The Department of Health is aware of rumors and misinformation circulating about quarantine orders and specialized quarantine facilities.
Public health officials regularly ask people who are sick with an infectious disease or may have been exposed to an infectious disease to stay at home and avoid contact with other people. This strategy has been used for decades.

Isolation and quarantine at home continues to be the best option and recommended for those who can do so safely. However, all of these actions are voluntary and confidential, despite the misinformation being spread by some.


Learn more by reading this statement issued Friday by John Wiesman, Secretary of Health, and Dr. Kathy Lofy, State Health Officer.



 


Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28be105



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 15


Positive tests to date: 158

Negative tests to date: 5,013
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
Kitsap County officials are preparing for next steps on the path to reopening and recovery
Kitsap County is not currently eligible to reopen more businesses and activities under Gov. Jay Inslee's plan. However, we are taking steps to be ready as soon as our county is allowed to move to Phase 2. And everyone who lives or works here can help.
Learn more about the Kitsap County plan for reopening and recovery.
 



Trusted tools in preventing disease: case investigations and contact tracing
Case investigations and contact tracing are trusted public health tools for preventing the spread of disease. This week, Gov. Jay Inslee described a statewide plan to use these tools so that more businesses can open and more people can be active in public while public health works to slow and prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Here in Kitsap County, the Kitsap Public Health District has 38 staff members trained to perform case and contact investigations. It also has contingency plans for additional contact-tracers in the event that existing resources aren’t sufficient.
Read the recent blog post from the Washington Department of Health to learn the facts about these trusted public health tools.
 





Staying Positive!
This masked Minion models marvelous manners as it waves at traffic along Burley-Bethel Road SE in Port Orchard.
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28b61ed



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 14


Positive tests to date: 158

Negative tests to date: 4,856
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


Kitsap Public Health update
Kitsap Public Health released initial results from the recent Kitsap County COVID-19 community survey. These include responses to questions related to how residents are coping under the Stay Home, Stay Healthy order. Complete survey results will be posted next week, along with a summary report. View the interactive survey results dashboard.
 
 
Economic and unemployment updates

The Washington Economic Resilience Team released today its weekly newsletter  summarizing the top stories related to the economic impact of COVID-19 in Washington.

The first results from the new U.S. Census Bureau Small Business Pulse Survey show the majority of respondents (51.4 percent) experienced a large negative effect from COVID-19. Most expect that it will take more than six months for their businesses to return to normal. Read the survey results summary.



In response to a rise in fraudulent unemployment claims, Washington Employment Security Department announced today that it is holding payments for an additional 1-2 days this week so it can validate claims as authentic. Read the news release.
 


Skagit County event shows how easily COVID-19 spreads
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released a new report detailing a "superspreading event" that occurred in Skagit County in March. After a choir practice attended by 61 choir members, 52 became ill with COVID-19 symptoms. Three members were hospitalized and two died. 
 This tragedy shows how easily COVID-19 spreads between people. To stop the spread of COVID-19, avoid groups, stay at least six feet apart, and wear cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain. 
Read the full report from the CDC (May 12, 2020).
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28bb485



Kitsap County officials preparing for next steps on path to reopening, recovery 

DATE: May 14, 2020
 
(KITSAP COUNTY, Wash.) -- While Kitsap County is not currently eligible to move beyond Phase 1 of the Gov. Jay Inslee’s four-phase Safe Start approach, officials at the Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center (KCEOC) are working to ensure Kitsap is positioned to move safely into future phases. The KCEOC is preparing for the safe reopening of businesses and resumption of other public activities. Officials are also planning for recovery in the immediate, short and long-term with the understanding that everyone who lives or works here will play a role in preparing to move forward with both reopening and recovery.

KCEOC teams are working to ensure that the required data and contingency plans are available to demonstrate the county’s ability to limit future outbreaks. "The public also has an important role to play in this effort,” says Keith Grellner, Kitsap Public Health District Administrator. “The community has done a great job of following public health guidance to slow the spread of COVID-19 in Kitsap, and we can’t let up now.”


The state is monitoring COVID-19 risk in the state as well as in individual counties, using a wide range of data including:





COVID-19 Disease Activity: Four new cases have been reported in Kitsap in May, and officials are concerned that decreased compliance with social distancing guidelines could result in additional new cases.


Testing Capacity and Availability: Healthcare providers across the county are offering the service, but availability of test kits and access to the personal protective equipment (PPE) necessary to safeguard healthcare workers administering the tests remains sporadic and insufficient. KCEOC officials estimate that about 3,000 test kits are currently available across the county. At least 30,000 more will be needed to ensure a sufficient strategic reserve in the event of an outbreak.


Case and Contact Investigations: The Kitsap Public Health District (KPHD) has 38 staff members trained to perform case and contact investigations and has contingency plans for additional contact-tracers in the event that existing resources aren’t sufficient.


Protection for Vulnerable Populations: Recognizing that there is significant risk of disease spread in congregate living settings, counties are required to demonstrate that they can quickly respond to an outbreak in an assisted living, skilled nursing, emergency shelter or jail. The KCEOC, in partnership with KPHD, has developed such a plan and set aside the required testing, PPE and other supplies to implement it. The state also requires counties to have a plan for temporary quarantine and isolation of people who have been exposed to or tested positive for COVID-19. Kitsap County has two sites available for those who can’t safely quarantine or isolate at home.


Healthcare System Readiness: Kitsap County’s residents have done an excellent job following recommended health practices and limiting the impacts of COVID-19 on local healthcare system resources. More challenging is ensuring access to enough PPE to sufficiently protect first responders and front-line healthcare workers. KCEOC is currently conducting a countywide inventory and estimate of future need.  





In addition to positioning Kitsap County for safe reopening, KCEOC teams are leading substantial efforts underway to gather data, engage stakeholders, plan for contingencies and prepare for recovery. Recovery from the effects of the pandemic requires looking beyond the obvious – health and medical systems – to the economic, civic and social issues as well. KCEOC planners  are focused on putting plans and metrics in place to guide Kitsap County to restoration and resilience in all of these vital areas. “It’s more than just relaxing the social distancing measures and hoping for good results,” says Kitsap County Department of Emergency Management Director Lis Klute. “KCEOC is putting a process in place that, when the state allows, will let us monitor and adjust measures based on indicators of success.”


“Everyone has a part in moving us forward toward recovery,” says Dr. Susan Turner, Health Officer for KPHD. “We urge our community to continue to be diligent about observing restrictions in place under Phase 1. That means avoiding nonessential trips away from your home, using good hygiene by washing or sanitizing your hands regularly, and maintaining social distancing measures – all the steps that have become routine in the past couple months.”


The Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center was activated at Level 2 (Partial) on March 3 and elevated to Level 3 (Full) on March 8 in response to the pandemic. Because this incident impacts all aspects of life in Kitsap County, the KCEOC is operating under a unified command consisting of the Kitsap Public Health District Administrator; the Kitsap County Department of Emergency Management Director; the Kitsap 911 Director; a representative of Kitsap County Law Enforcement Command Officers; and a representative of the Kitsap County Fire Chiefs Association. Staff and volunteers from the county, cities, special purpose districts, the U.S. Navy and tribes are working to coordinate efforts through the KCEOC in a variety of fields.
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28b5b39



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 13


Positive tests to date: 157

Negative tests to date: 4,765
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
A message from Kitsap Public Health District
Your health is essential. We need to keep our community healthy and resilient as we work together to overcome the challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic. While many of us have had our regular routines disrupted, it is still important to stay on top of preventive care and treatment of chronic conditions.
Skipping a wellness checkup or postponing an immunization could put your health or your family’s health at risk. Health care providers are working hard to ensure clinics and hospitals are safe for everyone to visit. Learn more at kitsappublichealth.org.
 
Business webinars from Kitsap Economic Development Alliance










Kitsap Economic Development Alliance hosts a weekly webinar on Thursdays at 10 a.m. with speakers on a variety of topics important to Kitsap businesses. Register for tomorrow's webinar and view past webinars. 
 














Guide to face coverings
More public settings require the use of cloth face coverings. Cloth face coverings help people who may have coronavirus and do not know it from transmitting it to others. These are just one tool and not a substitute for physical distancing. There is a proper way to put face coverings on and remove them.






Wash your hands or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer before putting on your face covering.
Make sure the covering is snug but that you can still breathe without restriction. Cover your nose and mouth and make sure there are no gaps.
Never put your face coverings in the microwave to disinfect them. Some face coverings contain metal, and cloth can overheat and catch fire. Laundering your face coverings between use is enough to sanitize them.

When removing your face covering, be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Wash your hands immediately.

Source: CDC.gov
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28b3e14



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 12


Positive tests to date:157

Negative tests to date: 4,639
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
The pandemic generation
COVID-19 and this time of physical distancing is a pivotal event for our kids. They will always remember the year they didn’t go back to school. Their experiences now will color the way they see the world for their whole lives.
As we talk to our kids, we help them make meaning out of what they see and experience. We can influence how this pandemic shapes a generation.
In this new blog post from Washington Department of Health, you are invited to consider how this experience could shape our kids into critical thinkers, continuous learners, innovators, and compassionate community members.
 
Report unemployment fraud 
Washington State Employment Security Division (ESD) is warning people about fraudulent unemployment claims and scam websites designed to steal personal information. 
The Washington State Employment Security Division would never request personal information, such as an individual’s Social Security number, outside of the ESD secure website.
If you become aware of unemployment fraud or suspect you have been a victim of it, you should report it to the ESD through one of these methods:

Email esdfraud@esd.wa.gov (preferred method)
Toll-free number: 800-246-9763
Faxing a letter to: 360-902-9771

Completing a fraud report form on the ESD website



 









Reporte fraude
¿Sospecha usted que alguien puso una solicitud de beneficios por desempleo utilizando su información? 
El estado de Washington toma el fraude de beneficios por desempleo, muy seriamente. Si usted tiene alguna razón para creer que alguien ha solicitado beneficios por desempleo utilizando sus datos, por favor díganos al incluir la información que abajo se pide.
Si sospecha de fraude de algún empleador, visite la sección de fraude de impuestos a empleadores.
Para reportar fraude de beneficios por desempleo, por favor llame sin cargo a una de nuestras líneas telefónicas, o haga un reporte por escrito ya sea por correo, por fax o al completar el formulario reporte sospecha de fraude.
Repórtelo aquí.
 









Who do you stay home for?
Public Works employee Justin is staying home for his son. When we all stay home, we help protect the most vulnerable in our community. We can and will #BlockTheReboundKitsap.
Gov. Jay Inslee extended the Stay Home, Stay Healthy order through May 31. The state is using a phased approach for reopening. During Phase 1, residents should continue to stay home as much as possible, only leaving for essential needs or physically-distanced recreational activities.
Learn more about Safe Start plans and guidance for reopening.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28b08bb



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 11


Positive tests to date: 155

Negative tests to date: 4,610
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


Kitsap Strong's Virtual Community Center
Kitsap Strong recently launched a Virtual Community Center to help our community connect with each other through science-informed activities that help regulate stress. These activities include art, music, movement, play, breathing, mindfulness, and more.
The Virtual Community Center scheduled three events this week: 

Little Frog: A mindfulness activity for children
Introduction to Mindfulness with Counselor Liz Reese
Music and Movement with Teacher Bonnie Schmidt 




Visit the Virtual Community Center or follow Kitsap Strong's Facebook page to join an upcoming event and view past events. 
Kitsap Strong is a community initiative to improve the health and well-being of all children, families, and adults in Kitsap.





 


Learn how gatherings can spread COVID-19
Using a real-world example from Chicago, this video from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) shows how quickly COVID-19 can spread in a community. The disease cluster described in the video resulted in 16 cases and 3 deaths.
Staying home and avoiding gatherings are key to preventing the spread of COVID-19.


 
Guidelines for outdoor spaces
We all want to enjoy our parks, so please continue to recreate responsibly when visiting outdoor spaces. Follow these simple guidelines to keep you and your family safe. Everyone’s cooperation will allow us to continue to keep spaces open and #BlockTheReboundKitsap.
Before you go:

Check what’s open.
Stay close to home. Recreate within your community.
Go only with people in your immediate household.
Be prepared. Many restroom facilities remain closed.
Feeling sick? Stay home!

When you get there:

Practice social distancing: Keep 6 feet between you and others.
Practice good hygiene. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces.
Pack it out: Take your waste with you, including gloves, masks, and pet waste.

 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28ad6dd



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 10


Positive tests to date: 155

Negative tests to date: 4,510
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - also available in Spanish


 
Lessons from a past pandemic
Smallpox was the first disease we had a vaccine for, and the first disease to be eradicated from the Earth. A lot of what we have learned about public health, we learned during the many years of international effort to eradicate smallpox. Some of these lessons are relevant to COVID-19. Learn about these lessons in a new blog post from the Washington State Department of Health.
 
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28ac4a0



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 9


Positive tests to date: 155

Negative tests to date: 4,401
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English

 
Disminución en las tasas de vacunación deja a los niños vulnerables a otras enfermedades
This article in Spanish urges parents to make appointments for recommended child vaccinations. An English version was published in yesterday's daily update.
 
Safe Start Phase 1: Curbside retail, pet walking, and landscaping guidance released
Gov. Jay Inslee released additional guidance yesterday for businesses and services under Safe Start Phase 1. Included are guidelines for pet-walking, landscaping and retail outlets providing curbside service. The business activities are not authorized to open until the business is able to meet all safety criteria. 
Visit the Safe Start page to view the complete list of Phase 1 business activity guidelines.



 
Staying positive: Birdwatching
Finding a connection with nature can help bring a sense of calm and well-being. Even though some parks are open, you don’t need to go anywhere to enjoy wildlife and nature. If the parking lots are full, or you are in a high-risk category, you can still find nature all around you.
May 9 is World Migratory Bird Day. Birds offer a wonderful opportunity to enjoy nature from the comfort of home. Black-capped chickadees, spotted towhees, dark-eyed juncos, house sparrows, and song sparrows are all common local birds. Watch for these birds or listen for their songs and calls.

You may be surprised at the number of different bird species that visit your yard. Stay home, stay healthy and #BlockTheReboundKitsap.
Learn more:
🐦The Cornell Lab - https://www.allaboutbirds.org
🦉Kitsap Audobon Society - https://www.kitsapaudubon.org/






 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28aa801



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 8


Positive tests to date: 154

Negative tests to date: 4,292
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.




 
Coping during stressful times
During this stressful time, it is normal that you or your loved ones might feel anxious, sad, scared or angry. You are not alone. It is okay to seek out and ask for help. The Washington State Department of Health has resources to help you and your loved ones cope through the extended Stay Home, Stay Healthy order.
New mental health and coping infographics are available. These have been developed to help residents cope with various COVID-19 challenges such as financial stress, emotional stress, and supporting kids and teens. All of the infographics can be found at coronavirus.wa.gov.
 





Extender la orden de Permanecer en el hogar y mantener la salud
This article in Spanish describes why the order was extended and what to expect in each phase. An English version was published in an earlier edition of the Daily Bulletin. 
 
Don't put off vaccines for children
Immunization rates among children appear to be dropping during the COVID-19 pandemic. This leaves children and communities at risk.
Providers in Washington’s Childhood Vaccine Program reported they administered 30 percent fewer vaccines to 0-18 year olds in March of this year compared with the same month in previous years. The amount of vaccine ordered by providers in March also fell both in Washington state and nationwide.
“We are concerned that babies and kids aren’t getting all the vaccines they need to protect them,” said Dr. Kathy Lofy, state health officer at the Washington State Department of Health. “Decreasing vaccinations increases the risk that we could see an outbreak of a vaccine-preventable disease.”
Parents and guardians should make an appointment right away for any immunizations their child has missed. Parents may be nervous about going in to a clinic. But health care providers are making clinics safe for families to visit.
“Now is the time to catch up. Talk to your doctor, nurse, or clinic about ways you can get vaccinated,” Lofy said.
 



Stay positive: Enjoy the sunshine responsibly
The weather will be great this weekend and we hope your family will find safe ways to enjoy the wide open spaces. And by that, we mean really wide... at least six feet.
Remember to enjoy the outdoors with members of your own household only. It’s still not safe to gather with others and the governor’s guidelines don’t yet permit gatherings of any size. Even a small neighborhood BBQ might be enough to spread coronavirus from an infected person who isn’t yet showing symptoms. Stay safe, stay healthy and #BlockTheReboundKitsap!
 





Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


The Kitsap County website will be down for service on Friday, May 8, between 5-8 p.m.
 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28a73cc



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 7


Positive tests to date: 154

Negative tests to date: 4,219
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Health District Update
Many people have asked whether Kitsap County could apply for a variance to Gov. Inslee’s phased Safe Start plan for reopening. In his May 4 proclamation, the governor provided an option for counties with fewer than 75,000 residents and no new COVID-19 cases in three weeks to apply for a variance to the Safe Start plan. Kitsap County does not meet this criteria and does not have the option to apply for a variance at this time. Learn more here.
 
Risk assessment dashboard updated
Gov. Jay Inslee and the Washington Department of Health released an update yesterday to the risk assessment dashboard. This tool helps gauge when and how to best lift restrictions around Stay Home, Stay Healthy in Washington.
The dashboard features five “dials” measuring different data points in the state. The dials will be updated each week on Wednesdays.
“Thanks to Washingtonians, we continue to see positive signs in the data we are tracking,” Inslee said. “We have made some progress in testing capacity, case and contact tracing, and reducing risk to vulnerable populations. While this is encouraging news, we still have a lot of work to do to continue protecting the health of our state.”




Stay healthy reminder from Kitsap Public Health District
As we proceed through Washington’s four-phase recovery plan, it is important to remember that standard health precautions remain necessary in each phase. In addition to social distancing and CDC-recommended use of face coverings, everyone should practice healthy habits to prevent the spread of respiratory illnesses:
Wash hands often.
Cover coughs and sneezes with an elbow or tissue.
Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
Clean and disinfect frequently used objects and surfaces.
Visit the Kitsap Public Health District's Coronavirus website for additional tips and printable fact sheets.
 



Grieving during a pandemic
Losing someone you love is always difficult. And losing someone while your life is already turned upside down by a pandemic can intensify your grief, creating more complicated, or traumatic, grief. This makes it even more difficult to heal.
During this time of physical distancing, the rituals that help with healing, such as funerals or gatherings with friends and family to mourn together, may not be possible. This blog post, available in English and Spanish from the Washington State Department of Health, can help you recognize when grief becomes more than grieving.
If you or someone you care about are experiencing traumatic grief, help is available. Learn about resources at the state's coronavirus mental and emotional well-being page.
 



Staying positive: Go on a backyard safari
Parks may now be open but it will take time before they are fully operational and accessible. Some parks may see an influx of traffic and crowds. Staying home continues to be safe and can also be fun! Venture out to "Backyardia" instead for your own private safari. Watch the video.

Your backyard safari could include hiding toy animals and drawing a map with clues to find them or finding new species of wildlife. Watch the video for more ideas. Most of all, have fun and continue to #BlockTheReboundKitsap.

 





Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


The Kitsap County website will be down for service on Friday, May 8, between 5-8 p.m.
 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28a3e6e



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 6


Positive tests to date: 152

Negative tests to date: 4,073
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

 
Washington's phased approach 
Do you have questions about the path forward? The situation is changing quickly, and a lot of new information has come out in the past few days.
The Washington State Department of Health (DOH) has answers to some frequently asked questions about the Safe Start Washington plan to reopen the state in four phases while controlling the spread of COVID-19.
DOH also has a comprehensive summary of the plan. Kitsap County, and most of the rest of the state, is in Phase 1. Officials project a minimum of three weeks between each phase.




Connecting students and careers
This week, Gov. Jay Inslee and Superintendent of Public Instruction Chris Reykdal kicked off Career Connected Learning Month in Washington.
As part of that effort, CareerConnect@Home will bring daily learning opportunities to students across the state.
Now every school day at 3:30 p.m., students can hear from real people doing real jobs in Washington. These programs will help students explore a range of education and career pathways.



Economic recovery and resiliency webinars
The Economic Resiliency Team, part of the state Emergency Operations Center, holds a weekly webinar with the Association of Washington Business. The webinars are intended to reach Washington businesses and industry associations.
In the newest webinar, Employment Security Department Commissioner Suzi LeVine, Department of Commerce Assistant Director Chris Green and Department of Labor and Industries Director Joel Sacks discuss the state's efforts to help employers and workers. All the episodes are archived online.
 
A conversation with Washington nurses
In conjunction with National Nurses Day, Gov. Jay Inslee held a conversation Wednesday with Washington nurses about COVID-19. Joining the governor were Katy Brehe, a registered nurse at Seattle's Harborview Medical Center; Diane Stedham-Jewell, a registered nurse at Providence Centralia Hospital; and Justin Gill, a nurse practitioner with Providence Urgent Care in Mill Creek. 
Watch on TVW. 
National Nurses Week runs May 6 through May 12, Florence Nightingale's birthday. Learn more about the history of National Nurses Week from the American Nurses Association.
 
Washington COVID-19 Call Center
Do you need information or answers to your questions and concerns about the novel coronavirus (COVID-19)? Call 1-800-525-0127 or text 211-211 for help.
You can also text the word “Coronavirus” to 211-211 to receive information and updates on your phone wherever you are. Receive links to the latest information on COVID-19, including county-level updates, and resources for families, businesses, students, and more. 
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28a0db3



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 5


Positive tests to date: 152

Negative tests to date: 3,982
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Health District Update
The Kitsap Public Health Board received an update on COVID-19 during a virtual meeting Tuesday afternoon. You can view a video recording of the meeting and the meeting presentation slides.






 
Advisory groups to help reopen Washington's economy
Gov. Jay Inslee today announced members of Safe Start advisory groups with focus on health systems and public health, social supports and economic readiness.
“These groups include a diverse group of voices, from community leaders in labor, business, government and nonprofit organizations,” Inslee said during a press conference Tuesday. “They represent a broad cross-section of Washingtonians from east and west of the Cascades, different generations and a focus on different impacts from the pandemic on our state.”
Each advisory group constitutes a forum for the community to consult with the governor’s office and state agencies on next steps as Washington moves forward. The members of these community leader groups are in touch with communities around the state and will inform decision-making.
The three community leader advisory groups will be led by state cabinet officials:


Public Health and Health Care System led by Department of Health Sec. John Wiesman

Safe Work and Economic Recovery led by Department of Commerce Director Lisa Brown

Social Supports led by Department of Social and Health Services Sec. Cheryl Strange

These groups do not substitute for legislative involvement. Cabinet leads and the governor’s office staff will report out to the local elected officials and the Legislature on the progress and status of the state’s efforts.
Read about the three groups and their members on the governor's Medium page. 
 












Heart attack and stroke don’t stop for COVID-19
Hospitals across the country report a drop in the number of emergency room visits for heart attacks and strokes. Avoiding the hospital in an effort to limit exposure to COVID-19 could be a deadly decision. 
If you or someone you know is exhibiting stroke or heart attack symptoms, it’s vitally important to get medical care right away. Call 911 if you or someone you know experiences a life-threatening emergency. Learn more from the Washington Department of Health.

View information in Spanish on when to go to the emergency room: Cuándo ir a la sala de emergencias
 






New credit protections for consumers
The federal CARES Act protects consumers during the coronavirus pandemic from any negative credit reporting as long as their accounts were in good standing before the pandemic started. The legislation:

Prohibits a creditor from reporting an individual’s delinquent payments to a credit reporting agency if the individual was up-to-date on their payments before the pandemic started.  
If asked, a creditor may also allow an individual to defer one or more payments, make a partial payment, or modify a loan or contract.

This protection also applies to credit history impact on consumer payment rate calculation for auto and homeowner's insurance. Get more information from the state Insurance Commissioner’s office.
 
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/289df82



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 4


Positive tests to date: 152

Negative tests to date: 3,916
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Kitsap Public Health update
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a virtual meeting from 12:30-1:45 p.m. on Tuesday, May 5. The agenda includes a COVID-19 update and discussion. Click here for details.



 
Safe Start Washington plan reopens economy in phases
Some businesses could reopen this week under the new COVID-19 order signed today. The state’s Safe Start plan is a phased approach to re-opening Washington’s economy. 
Under the order signed today, Phase 1 will allow the following starting on Tuesday, May 5:

Drive-in spiritual services with one household per vehicle
Vehicle sales
Retail sales with curb-side pick-up orders only
Car washes
Landscaping
Some pet services (not including grooming)
Essential travel and limited non-essential travel to engage in permitted Phase 1 activities

Read more about the Safe Start plan here.








 
As parks reopen, remember to recreate responsibly
Parks reopen tomorrow and the forecast calls for sunny weather in Kitsap County later this week. It remains crucial to recreate responsibly when resuming outdoor activities like hiking, golfing and fishing. Stay close to home, use good hygiene, and practice social distancing while using our region’s beautiful parks. Click on the graphic for more tips.
 





If sites become overcrowded or other COVID-19 safety concerns develop, agencies may close parks and other outdoor recreation facilities to protect public health and safety.
Jurisdictions within Kitsap may operate their parks differently. Here’s where to find information about parks in your area:


Bainbridge Island Metropolitan Parks District and Bainbridge city parks


City of Bremerton 
Kitsap County
City of Port Orchard
City of Poulsbo
Washington State Parks
Washington State Department of Natural Resources

Golf courses also are allowed to reopen starting Tuesday, but will operate under modified rules (PDF). Contact individual courses for more information on their operations.
 
Health insurance enrollment closes Friday
Qualifying Washington residents can sign up for health insurance via the Washington Healthplanfinder through Friday, May 8. The enrollment period was extended as part of the Washington Health Benefit Exchange’s Coronavirus response.
 
Staying Positive: May the fourth be with you!
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/289b5de



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 3


Positive tests to date: 152

Negative tests to date: 3,742
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Kitsap Public Health updates
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a virtual meeting from 12:30-1:45 p.m. on Tuesday, May 5. The agenda includes a COVID-19 update and discussion. Click here for details.
Turning the dial
The governor extended his Stay Home, Stay Healthy order through May 31. Nearly all the restrictions that have been in place are still there, but soon there will be new guidance that will allow for retail curbside pickup, car sales, car washes, services, and drive-in spiritual services (you stay in your car like at a drive-in movie, but instead of watching a movie, you watch the religious service).
As we turn the dial and re-enter public life, we’ve got to be vigilant on the things that we do as individuals to keep safe. This blog post from the Washington State Department of Health describes the phased approach to reopen businesses and resume many of the activities we love.

Deductibles and copays for coronavirus testing waived for 30 days

Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler extended his emergency order to Washington state health insurers for 30 days, requiring them to waive copays and deductibles for anyone requiring testing for COVID-19.
Insurers also must continue: 

Allowing a one-time early refill for prescription drugs.
Suspending any prior authorization requirement for treatment or testing of COVID-19.

In addition, if an insurer does not have enough medical providers in its network to provide testing or treatment for COVID-19, it must allow enrollees to be treated by another provider within a reasonable distance at no additional cost.   
The extension is effective immediately and applies to all state-regulated health insurance plans and short-term limited duration medical plans until June 3. 
 
Play a part in documenting COVID-19 history for the future

The Washington State Historical Society (WSHS) wants to hear from you and capture your stories about life during the COVID-19 pandemic. Each person's story adds a unique thread in recording this global event, and future Washingtonians are going to want to know what happened during this pandemic.


Some ideas of what WSHS is looking for:




Digital content, for example screen shots of COVID-19 related web pages, emails, memes on social media
Audio recordings 
Videos (click here for an example)
Photos 
Written anecdotes or observations 
Anything related to the coronavirus pandemic and your experience that you think would be interesting to someone 10, 20, or 100 years from now

 


Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2899f4d



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 1


Positive tests to date: 152

Negative tests to date: 3,714
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Kitsap Public Health updates
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a virtual meeting from 12:30-1:45 p.m. on Tuesday, May 5. The agenda includes a COVID-19 update and discussion. Click here for details.

Some state parks opening on May 5

Washington State Parks has a list of parks that will reopen for day-use starting Tuesday, May 5. Blake Island, Kitsap Memorial, Scenic Beach, Manchester, and Illahee State Parks will reopen in Kitsap County. Some state parks will remain closed.
 

The Poulsbo Viking wears a mask as a voluntary act of compassion. Stay Home, Stay Healthy!
Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/289780b



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on May 1


Positive tests to date: 152

Negative tests to date: 3,582
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Kitsap Public Health updates

Thank you to the more than 11,000 people who responded to the Kitsap Public Health community survey! The results will be analyzed and shared next week.
The Kitsap Public Health Board will hold a virtual meeting from 12:30-1:45 p.m. on Tuesday, May 5. The agenda includes a COVID-19 update and discussion. Click here for details.

 
Stay Home, Stay Healthy
Gov. Jay Inslee and the state Department of Health announced today:

Extension of the "Stay Home, Stay Healthy" order through May 31

Officials are working with industries to develop new protocols that could soon also allow for retail curbside pickup, car washes, landscaping and house cleaning services, and drive-in spiritual services with one household per vehicle.  
A reopening plan that outlines four phases of reopening businesses and resuming activities involving group gatherings, travel, shopping, and recreation. The focus is on reopening safely and protecting the health of workers and the general public.
The governor’s official order with more details will be released in the next couple days.

This is hard. We must help each other, and we must be resilient. Every one of us likely has feelings of sadness, anxiety or anger. Being patient and kind to one another and finding ways to support our neighbors and our loved ones is how, together, we’ll see our way through the very difficult personal and economic challenges many people are experiencing. Reach out if you or someone you care about needs help. Offer help to those who need it, and accept it from those who offer.
 

Week of Gratitude - #BlockTheReboundKitsap

This entire week is dedicated to all who are working to keep us safe and healthy during the coronavirus pandemic. We are able to stay home and stay healthy because of their work.
Today we thank the public works and utility workers who keep our infrastructure operational and safe. These workers maintain our sewers and stormwater systems, roads and traffic signs, remove our solid waste, keep the power and internet on, and ensure our water is clean and safe to drink.
 
Great Washington Camp-In
Back by popular demand, The Washington State Parks Foundation invites anyone craving a spring campout to attend the second Great Washington Camp-In at 6:30 p.m today, May 1, streaming live on YouTube.

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2894411



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 30


Positive tests to date: 151

Negative tests to date: 3,461
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Final day to take the COVID-19 survey
Today, April 30, is the final day to take Kitsap Public Health's COVID-19 survey Your input is needed!
The survey takes about 5 minutes to complete and responses are anonymous. Thank you to the 9,870 who have already participated.
 
Additional funds for Basic Food benefits
Additional funds for March and April will be available to approximately 277,000 Washington households that receive Basic Food benefits.
Learn more about these supplemental funds in English, Cambodian, Chinese, Korean, Laotian, Russian, Somali, Spanish, or Vietnamese.
 



COVID-19 risk data dashboard

Yesterday, Gov. Jay Inslee outlined the metrics and data that he and other officials review when considering how to modify the Stay Home, Stay Healthy order.

View the COVID-19 risk assessment dashboard.
View the Governor's presentation of the data at yesterday's news conference.
Inslee said he will provide more details Friday about continuation of the Stay Home, Stay Healthy order.
 








Video: Who do you stay home for?
Over the last two weeks, people across Kitsap have been playing The Great Kitsap Virtual Scavenger Hunt, an app-based game you can play at home.
One of the scavenger hunt missions asked teams to share a video explaining who they stay home for. We put together a compilation of some of the video submissions and shared them on YouTube. Watch the video.
 





Week of Gratitude- #BlockTheReboundKitsap
This entire week is dedicated to all who are working to keep us safe and healthy during the coronavirus pandemic. We are able to stay home and stay healthy because of their work.Today, we salute our first responders who remain on the frontline of the COVID-19 response. These brave police, firefighters, EMT’s, 911 operators, and corrections officers never know what their workday will bring but continue to give back to the community. Thank you for your dedication and service.




Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2891a0f



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 29


Positive tests to date: 151

Negative tests to date: 3,371
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

 
Governor Inslee news conference
Gov. Jay Inslee today announced new guidance allowing some non-urgent or elective surgeries to proceed. These procedures had been halted to allow medical facilities to devote resources to fighting COVID-19.

Inslee also said he will provide more information Friday about the extension of other restrictions under his "Stay Home, Stay Healthy" directive, which runs through May 4. 

Watch today's news conference on TVW.org.
 



Recreate responsibly
Some parks and outdoor recreation opportunities will begin to reopen next week. That doesn't mean we can let down our guard against COVID-19! 
Please follow this safe recreation guide from Kitsap Public Health District to help keep us on the path to recovery.
Remember, individual parks may close again with limited notice if large groups of people congregate or if there are other safety or physical distancing concerns.





We're all in this together
The Washington State Department of Health wrote a series of blog posts about the effects of COVID-19 on diverse communities in Washington. Some of these groups may experience a health disparity, which occurs when one group experiences overall poorer health compared to others.
Discrimination and stigma keep people from being as healthy as they could be. We are all connected. None of us are as healthy as we could be unless all of us have the opportunity to be healthy.



LGBTQ community and coronavirus





COVID-19 and people with disabilities





We are all in this together - race/ethnicity


 
Shopping and masks



Some Kitsap County retailers are starting to require that shoppers wear masks inside their stores. This could become more common.
The CDC advises that cloth face coverings should not be placed on children under age 2 or anyone who has trouble breathing. You can expect retailers with mask policies to follow the CDC's guidance.
You don't need sewing skills to make a mask. Follow these instructions from the CDC for wearing, making, and caring for your homemade masks. Masks are not a substitute for social distancing. Remain at least six feet from others even while wearing a mask.
This bigfoot in Crosby wears a mask - you can too!
 
Week of Gratitude- #BlockTheReboundKitsap
This entire week is dedicated to all who are working to keep us safe and healthy during the coronavirus pandemic. We are able to stay home and stay healthy because of their work.Never before have grocery and restaurant workers been so stretched. We dedicate today to cashiers, stockers, and grocers who tirelessly field questions about toilet paper and keep our stores clean and stocked. We also thank all those in the food service industry who continue to keep our bellies full. We thank you for serving the community.




Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/288da43



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 28


Positive tests to date: 150

Negative tests to date: 3,296
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.




 
Take the Kitsap community health survey
Please take the COVID-19 community health survey and share it with your friends!
The purpose of the survey is to better understand Kitsap County public perception of COVID-19 in our community and how residents are coping during the pandemic. Survey results will be analyzed and used to inform the ongoing COVID-19 response. Participation in this survey is anonymous and voluntary.
The survey will be open through Thursday, April 30. Kitsap Public Health will share results on its website.
 








Rental assistance programs available








A $641,438 grant from the federal CARES Act will provide up to three months of rental assistance for Kitsap County residents who make 80 percent or less of the area’s median income. The assistance is available to people affected by COVID-19 who are not receiving any other federal, state, or local housing subsidy.
The Washington State Department of Commerce also has rental and energy assistance available for households that qualify for the federal Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program.
To find out if you qualify for rental or energy assistance funds, contact the Kitsap Housing Solutions Center, 360-473-2035, HSC@kcr.org or visit kcr.org.
For households residing in Housing Kitsap units, contact Housing Kitsap at 360-535-6100, HousingKitsap@HousingKitsap.org or visit HousingKitsap.org.
















COVID-19 and pets

If you have COVID-19 or think you may have it, restrict contact with pets just like you would with other family members. Have another member of your household care for your pet, if possible. Learn more about what to do if you have animals.






Week of Gratitude
The #BlockTheReboundKitsap campaign is dedicating this week to those working to keep us safe and healthy. Look for social media posts and other content showing appreciation to the everyday heroes supporting our community.
We dedicate Tuesday to our local teachers! Teachers have had to learn new online platforms and quickly find new ways to deliver instruction. Through it all, they have demonstrated resilience, patience, and creativity.

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/288a5d6



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 27


Positive tests to date: 148

Negative tests to date: 3,237
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

 
Outdoor recreation restrictions modified
Gov. Jay Inslee announced today an easing of outdoor recreation restrictions starting Tuesday, May 5.
The governor stressed that these activities must be done with appropriate social distancing. Park users and people who work in outdoor recreation must be kept safe.
People should recreate locally and only with their immediate household members. Parks and lands could be closed again if there is reason to believe unsafe conditions exist or social distancing practices are not being followed.
Before you go, check what's open:

Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife: wdfw.wa.gov/about/covid-19-updates

Washington State Parks: parks.state.wa.us/COVID19

Washington Department of Natural Resources: dnr.wa.gov/open

Golf courses: https://wagolf.org/news/governor-inslee-announces-the-states-golf-courses-can-reopen-on-may-5/


Kitsap County Parks also announced plans to reopen parking areas on May 5. County playgrounds, dog parks, sports courts, shelters, and restrooms will remain closed for the duration of the Stay Home, Stay Healthy order. 






 






Updated symptoms of COVID-19
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has updated its official list of COVID-19 symptoms.
The newly-added symptoms are:

Chills
Repeated shaking with chills
Muscle pain
Headache
Sore throat
New loss of taste or smell

This is in addition to the previous official symptoms: fever, cough, and shortness of breath. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus.
 
Federal stimulus payment update
Today the Internal Revenue Service announced enhancements to the “Get My Payment” tool to deliver a better experience for Americans eligible for an Economic Impact Payment (federal stimulus payment). If you haven't yet received your payment, log into the Get My Payment tool and check its status.

If you do not normally file taxes, you may still be eligible for the Economic Impact Payment.

 
Colorado and Nevada join the Western States Pact
Gov. Jay Inslee announced today that Colorado Gov. Jared Polis and Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak are joining Washington, Oregon, and California in the Western States Pact -- a working group of Western governors with a shared vision for modifying stay at home orders and fighting COVID-19. Read the Governor's announcement.
 
Week of Gratitude
The #BlockTheReboundKitsap campaign is dedicating this week to those who are working to keep us safe and healthy. Look for social media posts and other content showing appreciation to the everyday heroes supporting our community.
The campaign's first post is dedicated to healthcare workers. Whether you are helping patients with COVID-19, caring for someone in the ER or ICU, or helping a mom in labor, we recognize your dedication and service. Thank you for the sacrifices you make and for your courage. To all who serve in healthcare, today we express our gratitude!

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2886de7



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 26


Positive tests to date: 146

Negative tests to date: 3,184
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.


Talking with children about COVID-19

With COVID-19 a major topic of news coverage and every-day conversation, children may worry about themselves, their family, and friends getting ill. Parents, family members, and other trusted adults can play an important role in helping children make sense of what they hear in a way that is honest, accurate, and minimizes anxiety or fear.

Take steps to help children with their fears:

Make time to listen and to talk.
Give information that is honest and accurate.
Remain calm and reassuring.
Do not blame others.
Pay attention to what children see or hear on TV or online, and do not let them watch a lot of news.
Teach children simple steps, like washing hands often, to stay healthy.

Learn more tips for talking with children about COVID-19 from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 
Virtual scavenger hunt extended
We invite you to join the second week of The Great Kitsap Virtual Scavenger Hunt, an app-based game you can play at home!
Even if you're not playing, you're welcome to download the app to simply enjoy the many creative and funny videos the teams submit.
To participate:


Download the GooseChase app from the app store on your mobile device.


Create an account or log in as a guest. One account per team.


Enter the game code VJLX4L or search for 'The Great Kitsap Virtual Scavenger Hunt.’


Select or create your team. Teams can have a single member.


The hunt ends on Friday, May 1.


 
Staying Positive: Fire and police agencies thank healthcare workers
On Friday, several Kitsap Peninsula fire and police agencies gathered to honor the real heroes of these trying times: our healthcare workers.
"For our friends on the front lines, facing a danger we still know so little about, please accept our deepest and most heartfelt gratitude and thanks for what you do. Our salute to you is yet but a small token of how we really feel." -Kitsap County Sheriff's Office
Watch the video on Twitter.
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2885904



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 25


Positive tests to date: 146

Negative tests to date: 3102
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.




 
When to use the emergency room
Visits to the emergency room have declined in Washington and across the country since the COVID-19 pandemic began. It’s not entirely clear why, but it may be a combination of many factors.
Most concerning is the possibility that people experiencing emergencies like heart attacks and strokes are avoiding the emergency room.
Learn when to use the emergency room.
 





Strategies for filing unemployment claims
The Washington Employment Security Department expects nearly 1 million unemployment claims to be filed this week, starting on Sunday, April 26. They are asking applicants to take some steps to avoid overwhelming their servers and call center. Follow their recommended strategies to get the assistance you need.
 



Gardening - #BlockTheReboundKitsap
More people are gardening during the pandemic and it’s easy to see why! Growing plants is good for the body and mind.
Many local nurseries are offering delivery and curbside pickup options so you can safely shop for supplies.
If your thumb is feeling more brown than green, Master Gardeners from WSU Extension in Kitsap County can help. Although they've cancelled in-person gardening clinics, you can still ask your gardening questions online.
If space is limited, you can garden in containers on a sunny patio or balcony. Or start an indoor garden with houseplants!


Gardening Resources from Master Gardeners
Natural Yard Care Booklet
Container Gardening Tip Sheet

 






Staying Positive: Finding humor
South Sound Cinemas in Port Orchard is certainly finding humor in a difficult situation!
Photo by Kimberley Dolges - used with permission

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28841fa



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 24


Positive tests to date: 145

Negative tests to date: 3067
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.




 
Kitsap Public Health District's Community Health and Well-Being Survey
Kitsap Public Health invites all Kitsap County residents to participate in a survey about COVID-19. The purpose of the survey is to better understand Kitsap County residents' perceptions of COVID-19 in the community and how they are coping during the pandemic.
Survey results will be analyzed and used to inform the ongoing COVID-19 response. Please take a few minutes to respond and share the survey with your friends and family. Results will be shared at kitsappublichealth.org
Take the survey at: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/COVIDhealthKPHD
 








Construction restart plan
Gov. Jay Inslee today announced that certain low-risk construction projects can restart as long as they comply with the COVID-19 Safety Plan. The safety plan was developed by a working group that included contractors and workers. The plan includes requirements related to safety training, physical distancing, PPE, and more.
The Kitsap County Department of Community Development expects to have more information available soon to help eligible local projects resume. Updates will be posted on DCD’s COVID-19 information page.
The governor did not announce restart plans for any other industry or activity.















Watch today's press conference on TVW.org.
 








Paycheck Protection Program receives additional funding
Today the U.S. Small Business Administration's Paycheck Protection Program received additional funding from Congress. Eligible small businesses and nonprofits should talk to a lender and prepare now for the application to reopen. 
 








Washington Mask Challenge
The Lieutenant Governor’s office has partnered with the United Ways of the Pacific Northwest and Serve Washington to organize a statewide homemade mask-making initiative to encourage people to make, wear, and donate cloth masks.
Here in Kitsap County, local social media groups are also coordinating homemade cloth mask donations. If you're on Facebook, search for these groups to connect with local mask-makers.
The Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares page also lists local groups who need masks or are creating masks to donate.
 






Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page


 



Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2880a0e



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 23


Positive tests to date:143

Negative tests to date: 2,954
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Kitsap Public Health published a report with additional data from the first 136 COVID-19 cases confirmed in Kitsap County. The report includes information about age, gender, race/ethnicity, symptoms, hospitalizations and other case characteristics. Read the report here.


 
Business and workers weekly update
The Business & Workers update is a weekly newsletter with news and information to help business owners and employees navigate the COVID-19 pandemic. Read this week's update on unemployment insurance, SBA paycheck protection, and more.
Washington State Department of Commerce today announced a doubling of funds available to very small businesses impacted by COVID-19 through the Working Washington Small Business emergency grant program. Read the April 23 press release.
 



Helping our teens
Social distancing can be especially difficult for teens who may be feeling cut off from their social life. They may also be sad or angry about missing milestones like graduation, sports, or prom.
It can be hard for parents or caretakers to know how to best help youth manage their emotions. Kitsap Community Foundation has created a list of resources for children, teens, and their caregivers, including a local texting line where teens in crisis can find a listening ear, resources, and safety.

Kitsap Mental Health Services also offers personalized care for young adults – and people of all ages – with staff available to help navigate stressful situations with compassionate support and resources. KMHS also operates a 24/7 toll-free crisis line at 888-910-0416 for anyone who may be suicidal or in an emotional crisis.

Staying home can feel lonely, but there is help. Let’s #BlockTheReboundKitsap.
 








Staying positive: The greatest Kitsap Great Give!
The 2020 Kitsap Great Give raised over $2,150,000 for local nonprofits - $700,000 more than last year. There were 334 nonprofits from Kitsap and North Mason that took part, and over 10,000 people who donated. Visit kitsapgreatgive.org to view how much each participating group raised.






Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/287d1f1



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 22


Positive tests to date: 141

Negative tests to date: 2,849
Deaths to date: 2
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

 
Washington's Recovery Plan: A safe return to public life
In his address to the state on Tuesday, Gov. Jay Inslee announced a framework for a gradual, data-driven, health-focused approach to safely returning to public life and work.
His plan focuses on: widely available testing and tracing of those who may have contracted COVID19 and obtaining necessary testing supplies; facilitating a safe start and transition to economic recovery; and increased support for those in need of food, housing, childcare and access to services.
The governor emphasized the top priority remains the effort to minimize COVID-19 infections and deaths. He did not lift his Stay Home, Stay Healthy order, but said in the coming days, as long as COVID-19 cases continue a steady decline, restrictions on some elective surgeries, outdoor recreation and construction may be lifted.
Read the rest of the plan on the Governor's Medium page or policy brief.
 
Rumor buster
Washington's Department of Health rounded up rumors on social media. Help to spread the facts!
 
Staying Positive: Earth Day
Celebrate Earth Day at home this year! Try out this fun backyard Earth Day BINGO game with your kids. Complete the activities in a row – up, down or diagonal…or cover the whole board! You can even reuse your Bingo card multiple times by placing it inside of a sheet protector and using a dry erase marker.
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/287a3a4



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 21


Positive tests to date: 139

Negative tests to date: 2,785
Deaths to date: 2

Kitsap Public Health has confirmed a second COVID-19 related death for Kitsap County. The community member who died was an older adult with underlying health conditions. We urge all Kitsap residents to continue to stay home as much as possible to slow the spread of this illness and protect our loved ones who are most at risk.

View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

Live Address: Washington's Recovery Plan
Governor Inslee has scheduled a live address for 5:00 p.m. today, Tuesday, April 21. Watch on your favorite television station or online at TVW - Washington States' Public Affairs Network.
 
COVID-19 and the stages of grief






This strange new world we live in, with the kids at home, job furloughs and losses, and makeshift work areas in busy corners of our homes, is going to be with us for a while. Polls show that 66% of Americans are concerned that the states will remove restrictions too quickly. Intellectually, we know the risks of COVID-19, and we understand why we need to stay in our homes. But that doesn’t stop us from having very real emotional reactions to the large and small losses we are experiencing. We are grieving.
 






Be cautious with household cleaning products
The Washington Poison Center (WAPC) urges people to be cautious with cleaning products during the COVID-19 pandemic. According to WAPC data, the number of exposures to household cleaning products (bleach, soaps, detergents, and antiseptics) increased by 23% from the number of exposures reported at this time in 2019. Many household cleaning product exposures are related to COVID-19 transmission concerns and precautions. Read the press release.
 
Workplace safety
The Washington State Department of Health offers recommendations and guidance to protect critical infrastructure workers, including how to screen workers' health.
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2877245



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 20


Positive tests to date: 139

Negative tests to date: 2,785
Deaths to date: 1
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.

An "infodemic"







The World Health Organization has said that along with the pandemic of COVID-19, we are experiencing an “infodemic” of misinformation, rumors, and myths regarding COVID-19. Help spread the facts!







 






Kitsap Great Give
The Kitsap Great Give, a 24-hour fundraising blitz organized by the Kitsap Community Foundation, is Tuesday, April 21.


The Great Give supports more than 300 local nonprofits, many of which are assisting in the response to COVID-19 or facing declining donations due to it. Donors can choose which organizations their funds support, and donations are boosted by a bonus pool provided by sponsors.
You don’t have to wait until Tuesday to give. Early giving is open now!
For more information about how to help those impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak, visit KCF’s Kitsap Cares page.
 






Census data helps public health officials and emergency responders













Now is our chance to help public health officials and emergency responders identify the resources they need to protect our communities. 2020 Census data will inform funding for hospitals, clinics, and emergency services across the country. Complete the census and learn more at 2020CENSUS.GOV.














Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28750c9



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 19


Positive tests to date: 138

Negative tests to date: 2,759
Deaths to date: 1
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.







 
ArtsWA CARES Act Relief Grants 


ArtsWA is pleased to provide rapid-response funding to non-profit and fiscally-sponsored arts groups and organizations that are facing financial hardship from the COVID-19 pandemic. This funding, in the form of grants, is provided by the CARES Act via the National Endowment for the Arts.
 









Volunteer Appreciation Week

The Kitsap County Commissioners have proclaimed April 19-25 as Kitsap County Volunteer Appreciation Week in recognition of the more than 4,000 volunteers who annually contribute their time, talent, and expertise to county government.
Volunteers have made invaluable contributions to Kitsap County’s battle against COVID-19, including working with the Department of Emergency Management and other agencies to support the quarantine and isolation care center in South Kitsap, the drive-up testing site in Bremerton, and more.
Please join County Commissioners and staff in thanking volunteers who make Kitsap a better place to live, work, and play for all!
 







#BlocktheRebound

We are all looking forward to the state opening up again. We miss our family, our friends, and our way of life. We know that we will need to reopen gradually. Until then, we've got to hold the line. Read the latest Department of Health blog for more information.
 
Staying Positive: The Great Kitsap Virtual Scavenger Hunt 
More than 200 teams are competing in The Great Kitsap Virtual Scavenger Hunt, and there's room for more to join the fun!
During each day of the hunt, teams get a set of missions to complete. They earn points by answering trivia questions or taking pictures and videos. All the activities can be accomplished at home or in your neighborhood boundaries, within a short walk! The top 20 teams are entered into a prize raffle.
Here's a heartwarming YouTube video of a poem created by the "IDK, GOOGLE IT!!" team for the Literary Genius mission. 
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2871b97



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 18


Positive tests to date: 136

Negative tests to date: 2,686
Deaths to date: 1
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard - available in Spanish and English.




 
COVID-19 survivors may help save lives by donating blood
Antibody-rich plasma may be effective treatment for those infected with the virus that causes COVID-19.
Bloodworks Northwest is partnering with federal and state agencies to make the antibodies of people who have recovered from COVID-19 available to those currently sick with the disease. This is one potentially effective treatment that can be administered and evaluated soon, while vaccines are being developed. 
If you believe you might qualify for this study and have received a previous positive COVID-19 test result, contact Bloodworks Northwest to assist these efforts.
 





Economic Recovery and Resiliency Webinar

The Economic Resiliency Team, part of the state Joint Information Center, has started a weekly call with key stakeholders statewide in collaboration with the Association of Washington Business. The webinars provide news and information to help businesses and workers navigate the COVID-19 pandemic and are archived for viewing.
 
Disaster Cash Assistance Program
Beginning Friday, April 17, some Washington residents can apply through the Department of Social and Health Services for emergency cash assistance to help meet their immediate needs. 
The assistance is available to all Washington families and people without children who meet the income and resource limits of the program. DSHS estimates more than 175,000 households may be eligible for this assistance. Apply at WashingtonConnection.org or call 877-501-2233 to complete the entire application process over the phone.
 

Staying Positive: Thank you, dispatchers!
April 12-18 is National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week, honoring the 911 dispatchers and call receivers in our community and across the nation.
Kitsap County is served by dispatchers at Kitsap 911, District 8 of the Washington State Patrol, and the Navy's Regional Dispatch Center.
These professionals are sometimes referred to as the first first responders, and their work as the bridge between citizens and emergency services is especially critical during the fight against COVID-19. Thank you to those who answer the call to keep our communities safe!

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/286ec48



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 17


Positive tests to date: 135

Negative tests to date: 2,534 
Please note that the number of negative tests reported for Kitsap by the state Department of Health has been reduced.

Deaths to date: 1
View Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard in English.
Kitsap Public Health District has created a new COVID-19 information page in Spanish. The page includes local data, fact sheets, and links to additional resources.
El Distrito de Salud Pública de Kitsap ha creado una nueva página de información COVID-19 en Español. La página incluye estadísticas locales de COVID-19, hojas informativas y enlaces a recursos adicionales.

 
University of Washington announces antibody testing 
Washington now has another tool to fight COVID-19.
The UW Medicine Virology Lab announced today it will start performing diagnostic blood tests to identify if a person was previously infected with the coronavirus that causes COVID-19. These tests must be ordered by a healthcare provider and will be available next week. 
According to the UW, the medical community is still working to understand to what degree having these antibodies will protect you from future infection.
Watch today's press conference on YouTube to learn about antibody tests and the UW's work.
 
Eviction moratoriums

Governor Inslee has extended the eviction moratorium through June 4 and added additional protections for residential and some commercial tenants.
The Kitsap County Board of Commissioners is considering a moratorium on evictions of small businesses and non-profits for late or non-payment of rent. The proposed moratorium would extend at least through May. The Board is seeking input on the proposal. Read about the idea and submit feedback.
 




Honoring Officer Enget
Restrictions in place under the Stay Home, Stay Healthy order have prevented community gatherings to honor Bainbridge Island Police Officer Kurt Enget, who died April 10 after being hospitalized for treatment of symptoms similar to those of COVID-19.
Despite the restrictions, tributes have poured in to Bainbridge Island Police, from the cards and flowers left at the police station to chalkboard messages and blue lights seen in neighborhoods.





Bainbridge police are encouraging people to don or display blue ribbons to show support for Officer Enget, his family and his fellow officers. Ribbons, prepared by volunteers, have been placed in a basket outside the police station on Winslow Way.

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/286e17b



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 16


Positive tests to date: 133

Negative tests to date: 2,577
Deaths to date: 1
Explore this data on Kitsap Public Health's interactive COVID-19 data dashboard.


 
COVID-19 testing site open to more groups this week
Kitsap's drive-up COVID-19 testing site has expanded testing criteria to include more groups of people. Learn more about the testing site, who is eligible to be tested, how to make an appointment, and what you need to bring with you.
 
A burning question
We know air pollution is not good for our lungs. It can cause asthma attacks, reduce our lung function, contribute to heart attacks, and even lead to death. Now a new study from the Harvard School of Public Health has found that air pollution also makes it harder for us to recover from COVID-19. The study shows that people who live for years in areas of the country with more particulate pollution in the air are more likely to die from COVID-19 than people who live in areas with less air pollution from particulates. Read more about the health effects of burning.
What can you do instead of burning? Chipping, mulching, composting, and grasscycling are among the best choices. Many Kitsap residents can also subscribe to curbside compost pickup service. If you cannot do these things, keep yard waste at home for the time being. To prevent flooding, keep it out of ditches where it can block the flow of rainwater. Yard waste is not a public health threat and it's not essential to dispose of it during this pandemic. It's not worth risking your health and the health of others to tidy up your yard.
 
Business and workers weekly update
The state has a new weekly newsletter with information to help businesses and workers navigate the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Staying Positive: Great Washington Camp-In









The Washington State Parks Foundation invites all Washingtonians experiencing cabin fever to attend the Great Washington Camp-In at 6:30 pm Friday, April 17, streaming live on YouTube. 








The evening consists of Washington State Parks ranger talks and stories, acoustic guitar sing-alongs, adventure poetry, and special campfire recipes like s’mores cocoa. To join in, “campers” can set up tents in their homes or yards, snuggle in their sleeping bags, and enjoy!

















Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2868606



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 15


Positive tests to date: 132

Negative tests to date:2,561
Deaths to date: 1
Kitsap Public Health has a new interactive COVID-19 data dashboard.

The health district added a negative test count to their COVID-19 dashboard today based on new data from the state Department of Health. Case counts as well as answers to recent questions about the data can be found online.

 
COVID-19 testing site open to more groups this week
Kitsap's drive-up COVID-19 testing site has expanded testing criteria to include more groups of people.  Learn more about the testing site, who is eligible to be tested, how to make an appointment and what you need to bring with you.
 
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28677ed



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 14


Positive tests to date: 132

Deaths to date: 1
Kitsap Public Health has a new interactive COVID-19 data dashboard.


We are pleased to have not reported any new cases of COVID-19 in Kitsap County over the last few days, but it’s too soon to know if this indicates an improving trend, especially as testing remains limited. It’s crucial to continue social distancing and practicing healthy habits like handwashing to slow the spread of the virus. Now is not the time to let down our guard!


 
COVID-19 testing site open this week
Kitsap's drive-up COVID-19 testing site has expanded testing criteria to include more groups of people. Learn more about the testing site and who is eligible to be tested.
 



Get heathcare coverage during the COVID-19 pandemic

















Washington Health Benefit Exchange has extended the COVID-19 special enrollment period through May 8, 2020, for coverage beginning May 1, 2020.







































Washingtonians who may qualify for health and dental coverage through Washington Healthplanfinder include individuals who:

Are currently uninsured;
Have recently lost their job;
Have lost, or will soon lose, their employer coverage;
Have experienced a change in income;
Purchased coverage through a health sharing ministry that has received a cease and desist order from the Washington office of Insurance Commissioner for fraudulent activity; or
Purchased full price coverage outside the Exchange marketplace, who due to a change in income could now benefit from the federal subsidies available exclusively through Washington Healthplanfinder.

For more information about healthcare, read the Coronavirus FAQs. If you need help enrolling, you can get over-the-phone assistance with your application. 
Free or low-cost Apple Health is also available year-round from the Washington Health Benefit Exchange.















 




















Eat local food, support local agriculture
WSU Extension has created a list of local farms that sell products during COVID-19 in a safe manner, easily accessible to the customer. 




Some farms are now offering community-supported agriculture shares (CSA), allowing customers to buy into a share of products produced on farm. In return, the subscriber receives a weekly or bi-weekly box of seasonal produce and other farm goods. In addition, farmers are offering online and phone order options, with coordinated drop off points, home delivery, or pick-up on farm.




Some local farmers markets will reopen this month with safeguards in place. For current information on your favorite local market, visit their Facebook page or webpage. Farmers markets are considered essential business under Gov. Jay Inslee’s “Stay Home, Stay Healthy” order.
 








Staying positive: Library in bloom
Kristel Dillon and David Vliet are the creators of this social distancing-friendly “flower library,” located on their farm near Kingston.
Borrowers can “check out” a vase of flowers (all vases are sterilized before being placed in the library), enjoy the flowers at home, then return the vase.
Dillon and Vliet said they hope to “plant the seed” for this idea around the region and beyond. Thanks to Kurt Smith of Kingston for providing the photograph.






Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28647bf



Kitsap County drive-up COVID-19 testing site to reopen

DATE: April 13, 2020
CONTACT: Doug Bear, Joint Information Center Manager at dbear@co.kitsap.wa.us.

Kitsap County’s drive-up COVID-10 testing site will reopen tomorrow, Tuesday, April 14. More residents are eligible for testing.
The site, located at the Washington National Guard Armory (1211 Carver Street, Bremerton), was open April 8-10 with narrower parameters. One hundred and eight people meeting those criteria were tested.
When the site reopens Tuesday, those eligible for testing include anyone experiencing COVID-19 symptoms (typically a fever of 99.6 degrees, shortness of breath, cough or sore throat) who also:

Works in any setting where healthcare services are delivered, including hospitals, correctional facilities, mental and behavioral health clinics, long-term care facilities, and similar institutions;
Works in public safety occupations, including the Department of Defense, emergency management and 911 as well as law enforcement, firefighters, and emergency medical technicians;
Lives or works in institutional or communal settings, like long-term care facilities, corrections facilities, homeless shelters and similar sites;
Works in critical infrastructure like grocery stores, pharmacies, restaurants, gas stations, public utilities, or in other businesses that remain open.
Testing remains available to people experiencing COVID-19 symptoms who are older than 60; have underlying medical conditions; or are pregnant.

The test site closed over the weekend to transition from federal to local management. The transition allows the testing to be offered to the wider pool of people.
The test site operates from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tuesday, April 14 through Friday, April 17.
To qualify for testing you must complete an online registration, which includes a medical screening. Qualifying people will receive a registration number and an appointment date and time. You need to show your registration number at the testing site. Those without internet access can call the Kitsap Public Health District at 360-728-2235 for assistance.
Kitsap Public Health District will notify people of their results within five days. Notification will come by phone and/or email.
Go to kcowa.us/covidtesting for current information about the testing site.

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2864203



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 13


Positive tests to date: 132

Deaths to date: 1
Kitsap Public Health has a new interactive COVID-19 data dashboard.


We are pleased to have not reported any new cases of COVID-19 in Kitsap County over the last few days, but it’s too soon to know if this indicates an improving trend, especially as testing remains limited. It’s crucial to continue social distancing and practicing healthy habits like handwashing to slow the spread of the virus. Now is not the time to let down our guard!


Kitsap COVID-19 testing site now open to more groups
More groups of people are now eligible for testing at the Kitsap drive-through testing site. All visitors must be experiencing COVID-19 symptoms: a fever of at least 99.6 degrees, cough, or shortness of breath. Before visiting, all visitors must first qualify through an online or phone screening.
Learn more about the testing site and who is eligible to be tested.
 
Quarantine and Isolation Care Centers open in South Kitsap
The Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center has opened a temporary quarantine and isolation care center for people who have been exposed to or tested positive for COVID-19. The facility can accept patients referred by healthcare providers or public health officials in Kitsap County.
Learn more about the care center and how it will help our community.
 
Call or text with your COVID-19 questions 
The Washington State Department of Health operates a hotline — with assistance in multiple languages — from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily at 1-800-525-0127. You can also text the word “Coronavirus” to 211-211 to receive information and updates on your phone.
Families and friends with loved ones in the care of a DSHS facility can call the FamHelp Phone Hotline at (888) 856-5691 between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. daily to learn what is happening at various facilities around the state.​
Deaf and hard-of-hearing people can call the CSD.org hotline using ASL Now or VP (833) 682-7630.
 
Western States Pact - Washington, Oregon, California
Today, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, California Gov. Gavin Newsom and Oregon Gov. Kate Brown announced an agreement on a shared vision for reopening their economies and controlling COVID-19 into the future. Read the joint statement from the governors.

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28654b5



Quarantine and Isolation Care Center in South Kitsap to Begin Accepting Patients on Monday

DATE: April 13, 2020
CONTACT: Doug Bear, Joint Information Center Manager at dbear@co.kitsap.wa.us.

(KITSAP COUNTY, Wash.) A temporary quarantine and isolation care center for people who have been exposed to or tested positive for COVID-19 is ready in South Kitsap. Starting on Monday, April 13, the facility will accept patients referred by healthcare providers or public health officials in Kitsap County.
The site, located at the Pilgrim Firs Camp and Conference Center in South Kitsap, gives health officials through Kitsap County’s multiagency Emergency Operations Center (EOC) a key tool in the battle against the spread of COVID-19 locally.
“To slow the spread of COVID-19, it’s vital that people who are sick or have been exposed to the virus stay home and apart from others. But we know not everyone has a safe place to be during this time,” Kitsap Public Health District Administrator Keith Grellner said. “This site will provide a secure environment for patients while protecting our community and keeping hospital beds available for those who need them most.” The Q&I site at Pilgrim Firs helps fulfill those needs, he adds.
There is a distinct difference between isolation and quarantine. Isolation is for people who are exhibiting symptoms or tested positive with COVID-19. Quarantine is for people who are well but may have been exposed to the virus. Sick persons must not be kept alongside those who are not sick, regardless of their exposure status.
At Pilgrim Firs separate cabins are used to segregate those in isolation from those in quarantine. Some who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are awaiting test results are able to safely isolate or quarantine where they live. See the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about protecting others in the home under these circumstances.
Others may need alternative housing to protect family members and others from infection.
Those most likely to use the temporary Q & I care centers are those most likely to be exposed – first responders and healthcare workers. However, to prevent the spread of COVID-19, space is also available for persons who cannot or are not comfortable quarantining or isolating in their own home or are homeless, and have tested positive or are awaiting test results.
A team of health, social services and emergency management personnel are working hard to ensure that these care centers are as supportive, safe and secure as possible for the well-being of staff, patients and the surrounding community.
To be admitted to the temporary care center, patients must:
• Have a referral from a healthcare provider or public health official;• Agree to a series of conditions including no weapons, alcohol or illicit drugs;• Understand if they who don’t follow the facility’s rules they will be asked to leave; and• Understand if they leave these voluntary facilities on their own, they will not be readmitted.
Medical support will be available on site, but patients must be able to care for themselves. All necessities are provided so patients have no need to leave the grounds. Anyone who chooses to leave is not readmitted. Trained staff and security personnel are on site around-the-clock.
Pilgrim Firs is located at 3318 SW Lake Flora Road near Port Orchard. Another site, at the Seabeck Conference Center, may also open if the need arises.
# # #

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/286248d



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 12


Positive tests to date: 132

Deaths to date: 1
Kitsap Public Health has a new interactive COVID-19 data dashboard. Click on the graphs, charts, and map to learn about the data. View the dashboard.


DOH adds additional data on confirmed COVID-19 cases

The Washington Department of Health is now able to report COVID-19 data on hospitalization and race/ethnicity. Based on the data they have at this time, it does not appear Washington has the same stark inequities in deaths experienced in other parts of the country. However, they are still working to get race and ethnicity data for a third of the deaths, so they can’t draw firm conclusions quite yet. Read the press release.

 
Support local food banks
An estimated 1.6 million Washingtonians are at risk of not having enough food to eat. That is double the number of people than before the virus outbreak. The number may continue to rise as hundreds of thousands of Washingtonians struggle with joblessness and limited resources. 
As demand is soaring, donations to food banks are down by 70 percent. 
We are calling on everyone to contribute what they can. Together, we can help keep food on everyone’s table across the state. 
Donate to the WA Food Fund, a relief fund that supports food banks and pantries across the state so they can maintain their food supply. Or donate funds directly to local food banks and pantries so they can buy the items they need most.
 
Children’s story book released to help children and young people cope with COVID-19
With the help of a fantasy creature named Ario, “My Hero is You, How kids can fight COVID-19!” explains how children can protect themselves, their families and friends from coronavirus and how to manage difficult emotions when confronted with a new and rapidly changing reality.
The book is the result of a collaboration of more than 50 organizations working in the humanitarian sector, including the World Health Organization, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies and Save the Children.
 
Download the book in English.
My Hero is You: all language versions
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2860ee4



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 11


Positive tests to date: 132

Deaths to date: 1
Kitsap Public Health has a new interactive COVID-19 data dashboard. Click on the graphs, charts, and map to learn about the data. View the dashboard.


COVID-19 FAQs for Faith Communities
Snohomish Health District has created multilanguage COVID-19 FAQ’s for Faith-Based Communities. Happy Passover and Happy Easter to those that celebrate!
 
Read on
You don’t have to visit a Kitsap Regional Library to get great library service! Access everything free with your library card. If you don’t have a Library card, you can easily get a digital Library eCard and start using the Library online today.
You can:


Download an eBook, Audiobook or music to your favorite device
Browse more than 3,500 online magazines through RBDigital


Research, with access to more than 40 online learning tools and databases

Learn through online courses on Lynda.com, Mango Languages, Learning Express and more

Read local and national newspapers
Kids can enjoy picture book readalongs and play learning games


 
#WeGotThisWA
A message from The Fonz and from former Seahawks offensive tackle Walter Jones.

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/285e7e8



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 10


Positive tests to date: 126

Deaths to date: 1
Kitsap Public Health has a new interactive COVID-19 data dashboard. Click on the graphs, charts, and map to learn about the data. View the dashboard.


 
Situation update from the Washington State Emergency Operations Center

CAMP MURRAY, WA- Recent data indicates Washingtonians are starting to see the positive effects of the stay home, stay healthy order. This means we’re all doing our part to slow the spread of COVID-19. While this is an encouraging sign, there is a critical caveat – our progress could easily be undone.


Read the full news release from the Washington EOC.

 
New resources for older adults
Washington State created a webpage with helpful resources for people over 60 years old and people with underlying health conditions. These resources include a new COVID-19 TV series for older adults created by the state’s Joint Information Center, AARP, and TVW.
AARP members are invited to submit questions and hear from top leaders and experts – including Gov. Jay Inslee and his top health official, Department of Health Secretary John Wiesman – about how to stay healthy, avoid scams, and more. Tune in to TVW Thursdays at 6:00 p.m. or visit AARP Washington’s Facebook.
 



Staying positive: egg hunts
This weekend, families in your neighborhood may be hunting for drawings of colorful eggs hung in windows. Add one to yours!
The egg pictured is in the Lake Symington neighborhood of Seabeck.






Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/285bc66



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 9


Positive tests to date: 123

Deaths to date: 1

Due to technical difficulties with the state database used to track COVID-19 testing, Kitsap Public Health is temporarily unable to update total tested and total negative. Read more here.













 
New interactive COVID-19 data dashboard
Kitsap Public Health District launched a new, interactive COVID-19 data dashboard on its website. The dashboard includes charts showing new and cumulative case totals by day, a map of cases by geographic area, and a breakdown of cases by age range. A menu allows users to find statistics for Bainbridge Island, Bremerton, Central Kitsap, North Kitsap, and South Kitsap. This dashboard will be updated at about 2 p.m. daily at kitsappublichealth.org.
Kitsap Public Health has been getting a lot of questions about how many Kitsap residents who tested positive for COVID-19 have recovered. The health district doesn’t track recovery information at this time and we don’t have hard numbers to share. However, we realize many people in our community are interested in this information and we are evaluating how we might be able to track and report recovery trends. While we do not currently follow up with every case, we do know that most people who get COVID-19 experience mild illness and are able to recover at home. According to the CDC, most people with COVID-19 are sick for a few days and get better after a week. This means most of the COVID-19 cases we have reported have already recovered or are getting better. This Kitsap Public Health fact sheet has more information.
 
Video: New drive-in COVID-19 testing site
Four groups of people are currently eligible for COVID-19 testing at the new drive-in testing site:

First responders with symptoms - including active duty military personnel and civilian employees of the Department of Defense
People with underlying health conditions and symptoms
People 65 and older with symptoms
Healthcare workers with symptoms

Register tonight to get an appointment tomorrow! The site is closed over the weekend but next week it may open to other groups of people. Watch this video to learn what the testing site is like.Visit the testing site webpage to register for a test, get the address, and learn who is currently eligible: kcowa.us/covidtesting
 
Now more than ever - Stay home
Kitsap, you have responded to the call to stay home. That means we should have more good news to share. But know this: If we relax now, we risk undoing all the progress we’ve made together.
Now more than ever - Stay home. Stay healthy. #WeGotThisWA
Watch today's video of encouragement from Governor Jay Inslee. 
 
Stay positive with The Great Kitsap Virtual Scavenger Hunt!
Are you looking for something to chase the stay-home blues away? Kitsap County Public Works Department is launching The Great Kitsap Virtual Scavenger Hunt from April 17-24.
During each day of the weeklong game, a set of missions will be released. Teams earn points by answering trivia questions or taking pictures and videos doing the missions. Create multiple teams and compete to earn the most points!
All ages are welcome to play. To participate:

Download the GooseChase app onto your mobile device.
Create an account or log in as a guest. Only one account is needed per team.
Enter the game code VJLX4L or search for 'The Great Kitsap Virtual Scavenger Hunt.’
Select or create your team. Teams can have a single member.
The hunt will go live on Friday, April 17 at 8 am and end on Friday, April 24 at 10 pm.


Happy hunting! 
Questions about the game? Email the coordinator.


Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2859980



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 8


Positive tests to date: 120


Negative tests to date: 1,840

Deaths to date: 1

Kitsap County expands access to the COVID-10 drive-up testing site
The testing site is now open to:




Healthcare workers with symptoms.


First responders with symptoms.


People 65 years and older with symptoms.


People with underlying medical conditions with symptoms.




Eligible people must qualify and register in advance. Visit the testing site webpage for more details.
Later this week, officials will reassess resources and decide whether the facility can open to other groups. If you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms but don’t qualify for this week’s drive-up testing, please contact call your health care provider. 
 
New small business emergency grants
Yesterday the state announced the Working Washington Small Business Grant, through the Governor’s Strategic Reserve Fund and administered by the Washington State Department of Commerce with the help of county economic development organizations. The grants will provide up to $10,000 for small businesses under 10 employees. Businesses can use this money to pay for rent, utility bills, supplies, inventory and other operating expenses.
 
Home for the Holidays
April is a special month.🌿 It's a new season, and Passover starts tonight. Soon many will celebrate Easter and Ramadan, too. For most families, holidays are for spending with extended family. This year, to #stayhomestayhealthy, we'll have to spend these special days only with those in our households.
Even apart, we can still be together in meaningful ways. Use technology to connect with worship services and extended family. Get creative and make new memories that you can revisit when you're all in the same room again!
 
National Public Health Week
In the midst of the most challenging public health crisis of our lifetimes, it's more important than ever to celebrate public health.
Thanks to Kitsap Public Health District and Washington State Department of Health for the hard work they do to keep Kitsap's people and environment safe, today and everyday! 
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/285682f



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 7


Positive tests to date: 119


Negative tests to date: 1,840

Deaths to date: 1

The Kitsap Public Health Board received an update on local COVID-19 response today during a virtual meeting. A recording of the meeting and a copy of the presentation are available online.
 
Multilingual resources for coronavirus info
Have questions about COVID-19 or looking for resources in multiple languages? Call the Washington State Hotline: 1-800-525-0127 (Open from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.). For interpretative services, press # when they answer and say your language. For questions about your own health, COVID-19 testing, or testing results, please contact your health care provider. 
Nuestra línea directa tiene acceso a servicios de interpretación telefónica en su idioma. Llame al 1-800-525-0127 y pulse #, cuando respondan, diga su idioma.
Spanish: Nuevo coronavirus, BienestarWA, Chinese 中文, Russian: Pусский, Vietnamese: Vi-rút Corona Mới, Korean: 한국어,  more translations...
 
Kitsap County launches its first drive-through testing site for COVID-19 
The initial priority is testing for health care workers and first responders who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. Read the press release for complete details.
 
Report price gouging
Attorney General Bob Ferguson today launched an awareness campaign encouraging Washingtonians to report price gouging in three easy steps: “See It, Snap It, Send It.”
Ferguson is encouraging anyone who sees price gouging to snap a photo or take a screenshot, and then include the image with the complaint they file at the Attorney General's website.

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28555c3



Kitsap County launches its first drive-through testing site for COVID-19 

DATE: April 7, 2020
CONTACT: Doug Bear, Joint Information Center Manager at dbear@co.kitsap.wa.us.

(KITSAP COUNTY, Wash.) -- A drive-up COVID-19 testing site opens for a short time in Bremerton on Wednesday, April 8, limited to priority groups identified by the federal government.  The initial priority is testing for health care workers and first responders who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. Officials at Kitsap County’s Emergency Operations Center (KCEOC) will reassess available resources later this week with an eye toward expanding testing to people with COVID-19 symptoms who are over 65 years old or have underlying medical conditions, then to those who work in critical infrastructure.  
“We are thankful that Kitsap County is receiving federal assets and expertise to increase our access to testing for individuals at highest risk for contracting COVID-19”, said Lis Klute, Director of Kitsap County Department of Emergency Management and member of Kitsap County’s multi-agency unified command for the local response to COVID-19. “We are working alongside the Kitsap Public Health District and our local, state and federal partners to make this happen.” 
The testing site is located at the Washington National Guard Armory (1211 Carver Street, in Bremerton) and opens 10 a.m. daily. Testing continues through Friday with appointments between 10 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.  To qualify for testing you must complete an online registration at https://redcap.link/Kitsap_COVID_Testing which includes a medical screening. If you meet the criteria, you receive a registration number and an appointment date and time. You need to show your registration number at the testing site. Those without internet access can call the Kitsap Public Health District at 360-728-2235 for assistance. To be tested you must be experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 – typically a fever of at least 99.6 degrees, cough, sore throat or shortness of breath.  
Registering in advance and arriving promptly for appointments contributes to the safety of those performing the tests, as well as the efficient operation of the testing site. Please arrive at least 15 minutes prior to your appointment and wait with all windows rolled up until instructed otherwise; be patient if your appointment runs later than scheduled. Up to four qualifying people can be tested per vehicle -- each person must register in advance and obtain an appointment.  
If you receive an appointment, follow these steps to get tested: 

Show your valid ID and registration number when you arrive. Write the registration number on a piece of paper big and bold. If your current residential address is not the same as the address on your ID, write your residential address clearly on a piece of paper and bring it to the testing site. Healthcare workers or first responders should bring organization-issued ID. 
Show these items through your window or place them on your car dashboard so test site personnel can review them. Do not roll your window down.  
After your appointment is confirmed, you are directed to an area where the test is administered. 
Tests are conducted by personnel in full personal protective equipment (PPE). Follow their instructions to complete the test.
Drivers exit the facility immediately after the test is completed. 

Results are provided by telephone from a federal call center (833-447-0001, caller ID: Results Center) within 4 – 7 days.  The call center attempts to reach you three times and does not leave messages. When they reach you, they provide you with a login so you can view your test results online.  
If you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms but don’t qualify for this week’s drive-up testing, please contact call your health care provider. 
“We appreciate the public’s understanding that testing resources are limited. But everyone can do their part to slow the spread of COVID-19,” notes Dr. Susan Turner, Health Officer for the Kitsap Public Health District. “We continue to urge people to stay home, stay healthy and practice social distancing.”   
# # #  

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2851f96



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 6


Positive tests to date: 111


Negative tests to date: 1840

Deaths to date: 1

The Kitsap Public Health District has confirmed the first death associated with COVID-19 in Kitsap County. The Kitsap resident who died was an older adult who had underlying health conditions.
“We were saddened to learn of the death of this community member and our hearts go out to their family and loved ones during this difficult time,” Kitsap Public Health District Health Officer Dr. Susan Turner said. “As a community, we must do everything we can to slow the spread of this illness and protect our neighbors who are most at risk. Please continue to stay home, wash your hands, and clean your living spaces. These simple steps can save lives.”
Public schools will stay closed for rest of academic year
Today Governor Jay Inslee and State Superintendent of Public Instruction Chris Reykdal announced that Washington schools will stay closed through the end of the academic year. Distance learning will continue, and schools are expected to resume on a normal schedule this fall. Read the press release.
 



Cloth face coverings recommended
Staying apart from other people and practicing good hygiene are the most important things we can do to protect our health and prevent the spread of COVID-19.
The Washington State Department of Health and the CDC now recommend people wear cloth face coverings when they are in public places where they cannot stay 6 feet away from others. Here are some key points to keep in mind:







Face coverings are not a substitute for other protective measures. It is still critical to stay home as much as possible, wash hands frequently, disinfect frequently used objects, and follow public health guidance.

Face coverings are not required. They are a personal choice.

People who choose to wear face coverings should use simple cloth coverings that can be made at home. Learn how to make a no-sew face covering.


Medical masks should be reserved for health care workers. Surgical masks and N95 respirators are in short supply and need to be kept available for health care workers and first responders who are helping patients.
Face coverings should not be placed on children younger than 2.

Today the Department of Defense announced that, to the extent practical, all individuals on DoD property, installations, and facilities will wear cloth face coverings when they cannot maintain six feet of social distance in public areas or work centers.
For more information about face coverings, go to coronavirus.wa.gov or cdc.gov.
 



Staying Postive: Teddy bear hunts
Teddy bear hunts are fun and safe scavenger hunts you can do while social distancing. People are teddy bear hunting all around the world (BBC News)!
Here's how to play: simply place a teddy bear or other stuffed animal in your windows for others to find during walks around the neighborhood. You don't need a stuffed animal to participate - a drawing works too.
Before you head out for a hunt, listen to the 1989 classic children's song, "We're Going on a Bear Hunt!" (YouTube).
 
Photo by Sandra Young, shared with permission. These bears are hidden in the Manette neighborhood of Bremerton.






Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28502c9



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 5


Positive tests to date: 104


Negative tests to date: 1,840





 
Cloth face coverings recommended
Social distancing is still the most important thing we can do to protect our health and prevent the spread of COVID-19.
However, the Washington State Department of Health and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) now recommend people wear cloth face coverings when they are in public places and cannot stay at least 6 feet away from others.
Wearing cloth face coverings will not prevent the spread of COVID-19 without use of other protective measures. It is critical to stay home whenever possible, wash hands often, and disinfect frequently used objects.
 





More announcements from Governor Jay Insleee
Governor Inslee has scheduled a press conference for 2:30 p.m. on Monday, April 6. Watch on your favorite television station or online at TVW - Washington States' Public Affairs Network.
 
Staying positive while we "Stay Home, Stay Healthy"
Teachers and staff at Richard Gordon Elementary in North Kitsap recently sent this cheerful video to the school's students, letting them know how much they're missed! Click the video below to watch it on YouTube.
Shared with permission

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/284ee94



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 4


Positive tests to date: 99


Negative tests to date: 1,796


 
Another month at home, let’s emerge healthier 
Social distancing efforts are beginning to “flatten the curve” here in Washington. Even so, models from the University of Washington suggest that we may see 1,400 deaths from COVID-19 in this state, and it is clear that more people will die if our social distancing efforts stop right now. Thursday, Governor Inslee extended the “Stay Home, Stay Healthy” order for another month until May 4.
 
Video Q & A with the Superintendent of Public Instruction Chris Reykdal
Every week Superintendent Chris Reykdal posts an update regarding school closures, COVID-19, and important news from OSPI during these challenging times. Here's last evening's YouTube edition:

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/284a508



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 3.


Positive tests to date: 95


Negative tests to date: 1,670


Posters for Groceries and Restaurants
Kitsap Public Health is making posters available for grocery stores and restaurants to educate customers and staff about steps being taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
 
Spread the Facts 
If you'd like to help spread the word with accurate information, you can find an array of tools from the Washington State Joint Information Center on COVID-19 at Spread the Facts. 
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/284d62d



New Kitsap Cares website provides valuable community resources – and ways to help 

DATE: April 3, 2020CONTACT: Doug Bear, Joint Information Center Manager at dbear@co.kitsap.wa.us.

(KITSAP COUNTY, Wash.) -- With the COVID-19 pandemic impacting us deeply, Kitsap Community Foundation, in partnership with the Kitsap County Emergency Operations Center, created a new website called “Kitsap Cares” to serve as a centralized point of information for local community resources to help individuals, nonprofit organizations, and businesses cope with the coronavirus pandemic.
Kitsap Community Foundation manages the website that includes comprehensive information about where to look for help from local organizations – and ways to help through donating time, money, or equipment. More resources are added daily. 
You are invited to explore the site, share it with others, and suggest a resource or way to assist that may not be listed. A contact link is provided on the site. 
Kitsap County also maintains two websites to help residents find the government services they need:

Emergency Operations Center - Coronavirus Resources and Information includes the latest coronavirus pandemic announcements from the Emergency Operations Center and government resources and information from local, state, and federal agencies.

Kitsap County's online government services page helps people contact county departments and access county services remotely during the "Stay Home, Stay Healthy" Order.


# # # 


Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/284d3f1



Isolation and Quarantine Centers on Kitsap’s Horizon

DATE: April 3, 2020
CORRECTION: This is a corrected messaged. The bolded sentence below replaces a sentence in the original release. Patients are not restricted from leaving the facility.
CONTACT: Doug Bear, Joint Information Center Manager at dbear@co.kitsap.wa.us.

Emergency Operations Center hard at work to meet the challenges posed by COVID-19 outbreak
(KITSAP COUNTY, Wash.) – A coalition of local agencies and government under the leadership of the Kitsap Public Health District, is working together through Kitsap County’s Emergency Operations Center (KCEOC) to support the robust local response to the COVID-19 health crisis.
Among the current priorities are final preparations for locations to use as isolation and quarantine facilities. The sites serve anyone in the community – including first responders and healthcare workers – who need this type of specialized temporary housing. The facilities are not yet open to the public. Officials continue to work on several elements including staffing, safety and security before the sites can open.
“Our primary goal is to limit the disease’s spread in order limit the impact on our health care system, which will help save lives” said Elizabeth Klute, Director of Kitsap County’s Department of Emergency Management.
Toward that end, the facilities are being set-up with a focus on the safety of the surrounding community as well as of the people staying in the sites. Seabeck Conference Center and Port Orchard's Pilgrim Firs Camp and Conference Center are the county's first locations for isolation and quarantine (I & Q).
The key difference between isolation and quarantine is that isolation is for people who are sick. Quarantine is for people who may have been exposed to a disease but are NOT currently sick. Persons staying in isolation and quarantine at the sites will be kept apart.
Admission to the facilities is voluntary.  Admission to the I & Q sites requires a referral from first responders or a healthcare agency, healthcare professional or public health official. Admitted residents are medically monitored and remain at the facility until they meet specific release requirements. Security staff are on-site 24/7.
In addition to fulfilling unmet housing needs for isolation and quarantine, the sites may provide space for assessment and recovery to house medically stable individuals recovering from COVID-19 and help free valuable hospital beds for those who need it most.  Officials are implementing measures to ensure adequate separation between the facilities’ distinct functions. The facilities are for those people who do not have other suitable housing options, including those who want to protect family members who are at higher risk for severe illness. 
The I&Q sites are part of a broader strategy to slow the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Public health officials urge Kitsap residents to continue staying at home as much as possible to protect their health and help prevent COVID-19 from spreading. “We know social distancing measures are disruptive to people’s lives and livelihoods, but we also know these measures will slow the spread of this illness if we remain diligent in our efforts. We appreciate every Kitsap resident who is doing their part by staying home, and we are grateful to the health care workers and first responders putting their own health at risk each day to protect our community,” Kitsap Public Health District Health Officer Dr. Susan Turner said. “This is an uncertain and scary time for many. Please continue to be kind and helpful to your neighbors as we work together to overcome these challenges.”
For more information about Kitsap County’s response to COVID-19, see the EOC’s website at kcowa.us/covid19resources.  People without Internet access can also get access to resources and information by calling the state’s COVID-19 hotline at (800)-525-0127.
###
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/284a1de



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on April 2.


Positive tests to date: 83


Negative tests to date: 1,635


About Testing Updates
Kitsap Public Health will continue to post COVID-19 testing updates to its website at 2 p.m. daily. The state Department of Health is working to address technical issues with the database used to track COVID-19 test results. Those issues may still cause delays in reporting some numbers, especially negative test totals. In addition, numbers reported by Kitsap Public Health might be different from numbers reported by the Department of Health.
 
Press Conference at 5 P.M. Today
Governor Inslee has announced a press conference for 5 p.m. this afternoon.  You can watch the event live on participating television channels, on stations' websites and on TVW.
 
Kitsap Community Foundation - Kitsap Cares Page
Today, the Kitsap Community Foundation launched a companion website to our own government information and assistance page. At the Foundation’s site, visitors will find ways to help as well as links to resources from non-profit and community groups working to help during the current health emergency. 
 

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28470a0



News & Information
Data Reporting Delays
The Washington State Department of Health is experiencing technical difficulties with the data repository used to report COVID-19 test results. The state is working to fix the problem. Kitsap Public Health will delay posting updated testing numbers while these issues are being resolved. New numbers will be posted at kitsappublichealth.org soon as they become available. Read more here.
 
Business Assistance
Businesses seeking additional information about relief from economic injury due to the COVID-19 outbreak can find resources through this U.S. Small Business Administration site. https://covid19relief.sba.gov
 
Kitsap Transit Reduces Services
Due to a shortage of operators, Kitsap Transit has implemented new service reductions effective today instead of April 6 as previously announced. https://www.kitsaptransit.com/blog/rider-alerts/post/temporarily-reduced-service-on-routed-buses 
 
Leave WIC Food on Grocery Shelves for WIC Families
Families who aren’t in the WIC (Special Supplemental Nutrition for Women, Infants and Children) program can help WIC families by leaving WIC products on the grocery shelves and choosing something else if possible. Products marked with a WIC shelf tag are the only things WIC families are able to buy with their benefit. 
 

Useful Links

KC EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page
Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response
Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page
Washington State Coronavirus Response Page




Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2843b46



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on March 31.


Positive tests to date: 74


Negative tests to date: 1,433


New COVID-19 Data ReportsKitsap Public Health District has published new COVID-19 data reports for Kitsap County. Testing information is updated daily on our web site. More maps and charts are available in a weekly Kitsap COVID-19 Surveillance Report.
Social DistancingWhile the number of COVID-19 cases reported in Kitsap continues to grow, our case investigators have noticed an encouraging trend. Kitsap residents who recently tested positive for COVID-19 are reporting fewer close contacts (people they have been in close proximity to) compared with cases we investigated prior to the statewide social distancing measures taking effect. This tells us social distancing is helping reduce the number of people exposed to the virus. It is critical that we continue to follow social distancing guidelines so we can slow the spread of COVID-19 in our community. By slowing the spread of the illness, we can lessen the overall impact of the outbreak, protect our most vulnerable residents, and prevent overcrowding of our health care system.
Subscribe to email updates from the Washington State Department of Health here.
Go here for household cleaning guidelines from the Center for Disease Control.

Useful Links

KC EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page
Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response
Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page
Washington State Coronavirus Response Page




Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2840b5f



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on March 30.


Positive tests to date: 63


Negative tests to date: 1,433


Complaints regarding businesses violating the statewide “Stay Home, Stay Healthy” order can be submitted through a new web page. The governor’s office will follow up with education and enforcement as needed. Learn more about what businesses are allowed to be open during the “Stay Home, Stay Healthy” order.
Don’t flush wipes! Please help protect our public health by not flushing wipes, paper towels, or any products other than toilet paper. Whether you have sewer service or a septic system, wipes can clog pipes and cause sewage spills.
Washington State Department of Health has introduced new visual tools for better understanding of statewide data on the Coronavirus outbreak. Follow the highlighted link for details.
Help your local first responders fight COVID-19 through self-reporting in Community Connect, a secure online platform.Follow the highlighted link for details.

Useful Links

KC EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page
Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response
Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page
Washington State Coronavirus Response Page




Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/283d798



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on March 29.

Positive tests to date: 56
Negative tests to date: 1,300

The Department of Justice is remaining vigilant in detecting, investigating, and prosecuting wrongdoing related to the crisis. Find out how you can protect yourself and helpful resources on DOJ’s Coronavirus Fraud Prevention website.
Scammers are taking advantage of fears surrounding the coronavirus. The Federal Trade Commission has also established a website with helpful information to help consumers avoid coronavirus-related scams.
FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) has published a web page that helps you distinguish between rumors and facts regarding the response to coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Rumors easily circulate within communities during a crisis. Do your part to the stop the spread of disinformation by doing three easy things

Don’t believe rumors.
Don’t pass them along.
Go to trusted sources of information to get the facts about the federal, state and local responses to the cornavirus and COVID-19.

Go to FEMA's Rumor Control page to get the facts about the federal response.

Useful Links

KC EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page
Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response
Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page
Washington State Coronavirus Response Page




Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2839740



News & Information
COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on March 27.

Positive tests to date = 41
Negative tests to date = 1,088

"Essential" Businesses GuidelinesWe have been getting a lot of questions regarding what businesses are “essential” under the governor’s Stay Home, Stay Healthy order. The Governor’s Office posted detailed guidance on “essential businesses” by sector. Businesses can also request clarification on their status, or ask to be added to the list, by filling out this form. Learn more at coronavirus.wa.gov/business-workers.
 
Plastic bag bag suspended - Here's what you need to know.The Kitsap County Commissioners suspended the County-wide plastic bag ban as part of the Coronavirus response. Follow this link to learn more.
 

Useful Links

KC EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page
Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response
Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page
Washington State Coronavirus Response Page




Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2836a31



News & Information

Each day of the Coronavirus response the Unified Command sends out a message with news from Kitsap Public Health District (KPHD) and the Emergency Operation Center. Subscribe to this daily bulletin at the KPHD link shown below.
 
Today's update from Kitsap Public Health District

Governor Inslee issued a Construction Guidance letter on March 25 clarifying what work is not allowed under the Stay Home, Stay Safe order. The governor’s order halts construction on new commercial and residential septic systems until at least April 6. Kitsap Public Health will not review new construction applications while the order is in effect. Learn more here.
Kitsap Public Health has created an outreach team to educate businesses, organizations and individuals on the requirements of the statewide Stay Home, Stay Safe order.
Kitsap Public Health posted a fact sheet explaining how COVID-19 cases are investigated and why limited details are released for each case.

COVID-19 Testing Results Update for Kitsap County as of 2 p.m. on March 26.

Positive cases to date = 33
Negative cases to date = 850

Today's Update from the Emergency Operations CenterThe Emergency Operations Center continues to coordinate our Coronavirus response. Check the Resource page below for the latest information and useful resources. The County services page has up-to-date information about County operations and online Services. The Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page has the latest medical information and many health-related resources.  
 
Useful Links

KC EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page
Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response
Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page

 
 




Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2833864



News & Information
The Emergency Operations Center (EOC) was activated on February 29 at Level 3 for the Coronavirus outbreak. On March 16 the level was elevated to full activation. The EOC is operating under a Unified Command consisting of Kitsap Public Health District, Kitsap County Emergency Management, Kitsap 911 and Kitsap Fire Chiefs Association.
The goal of the unified response to the COVID-19 is to mitigate, to the extent possible, the impact of the infectious disease on the health care system and high-risk population of:

The elderly;
Those with pre-existing health conditions;
The immuno-suppressed; and
Those experiencing homelessness.

This is a whole-community, all-hands on deck approach to this emergency response and we appreciate all that you are doing as members of this community to help.  On Thursday, March 19, the EOC operations shifted to a “Virtual EOC” with all those participating communicating through computers and phones. The EOC team typically works from 7:30 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. each day.
The physical EOC at 911 Carver was vacated to reduce the risk to 911 dispatchers who provide the critical communication to our first responder agencies. We will provide an update daily with any new information or useful links.
 
Useful Links

KC EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page
Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response
Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page




Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/28654b5



Quarantine and Isolation Care Center in South Kitsap to Begin Accepting Patients on Monday

DATE: April 13, 2020
CONTACT: Doug Bear, Joint Information Center Manager at dbear@co.kitsap.wa.us.

(KITSAP COUNTY, Wash.) A temporary quarantine and isolation care center for people who have been exposed to or tested positive for COVID-19 is ready in South Kitsap. Starting on Monday, April 13, the facility will accept patients referred by healthcare providers or public health officials in Kitsap County.
The site, located at the Pilgrim Firs Camp and Conference Center in South Kitsap, gives health officials through Kitsap County’s multiagency Emergency Operations Center (EOC) a key tool in the battle against the spread of COVID-19 locally.
“To slow the spread of COVID-19, it’s vital that people who are sick or have been exposed to the virus stay home and apart from others. But we know not everyone has a safe place to be during this time,” Kitsap Public Health District Administrator Keith Grellner said. “This site will provide a secure environment for patients while protecting our community and keeping hospital beds available for those who need them most.” The Q&I site at Pilgrim Firs helps fulfill those needs, he adds.
There is a distinct difference between isolation and quarantine. Isolation is for people who are exhibiting symptoms or tested positive with COVID-19. Quarantine is for people who are well but may have been exposed to the virus. Sick persons must not be kept alongside those who are not sick, regardless of their exposure status.
At Pilgrim Firs separate cabins are used to segregate those in isolation from those in quarantine. Some who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are awaiting test results are able to safely isolate or quarantine where they live. See the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about protecting others in the home under these circumstances.
Others may need alternative housing to protect family members and others from infection.
Those most likely to use the temporary Q & I care centers are those most likely to be exposed – first responders and healthcare workers. However, to prevent the spread of COVID-19, space is also available for persons who cannot or are not comfortable quarantining or isolating in their own home or are homeless, and have tested positive or are awaiting test results.
A team of health, social services and emergency management personnel are working hard to ensure that these care centers are as supportive, safe and secure as possible for the well-being of staff, patients and the surrounding community.
To be admitted to the temporary care center, patients must:
• Have a referral from a healthcare provider or public health official;• Agree to a series of conditions including no weapons, alcohol or illicit drugs;• Understand if they who don’t follow the facility’s rules they will be asked to leave; and• Understand if they leave these voluntary facilities on their own, they will not be readmitted.
Medical support will be available on site, but patients must be able to care for themselves. All necessities are provided so patients have no need to leave the grounds. Anyone who chooses to leave is not readmitted. Trained staff and security personnel are on site around-the-clock.
Pilgrim Firs is located at 3318 SW Lake Flora Road near Port Orchard. Another site, at the Seabeck Conference Center, may also open if the need arises.
# # #

Useful Links


Kitsap County EOC Coronavirus Resource and Information Page


Kitsap Community Foundation's Kitsap Cares Page


Kitsap County Services During the Coronavirus Response


Kitsap Public Health Coronavirus Information Page


Washington State Coronavirus Response Page





Scraping from https://www.dshs.wa.gov/sites/default/files/English-DisasterCashAssistanceProgramFAQ.pdf


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WAKITSAP/bulletins/2890c75


Scraping from https://kitsappublichealth.org/CommunityHealth/files/COVID/COVID-KitsapPhase2Approval.pdf


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://chambermaster.blob.core.windows.net/userfiles/UserFiles/chambers/716/CMS/2020/covid/B2B-toolkit-May-28-r4.pdf


A PDF here.
