


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/2098/COVID-19-News-Updates





Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1703


 Yesterday, Gov. Jared Polis announced that the state is shifting to a new phase: Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors.This new phase, effective immediately, offers new guidelines for several key areas including Places of Worship, Personal Recreation, and Outdoor Recreation. Many restrictions have been eased but still emphasize social distancing, face coverings, frequent cleaning, and avoiding large gatherings.Additionally, Gov. Polis announced that businesses can now refuse service to the unmasked, should they choose to do so. Ultimately, the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment encourages everyone to follow new guidelines to the best of their abilities for the safety and benefit of all.View Places of Worship guidance View Personal Recreation guidance (e.g. gyms, pools, playgrounds, organized sports, etc.)View Outdoor Recreation guidanceView a full listing of current Safer-at-Home GuidelinesQuestionsIf you have specific questions about any of the Safer-at-Home guidelines, you can contact the Tri-County Health Department at 303-220-9200 or callcenter@tchd.org. 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1657


 Visits will be by appointment only, with new health and safety protocols in place On Monday, May 18, Arapahoe County will begin reopening its facilities to the public after being closed since late-March due to the coronavirus health crisis. Reopened buildings will operate under significant health and safety restrictions that are designed to protect the public and County employees by slowing the spread of COVID-19. These measures – which require customers to wear mask and practice social distancing – will remain in place indefinitely, and the County will continually reevaluate its practices as new public health information, data and guidelines become available.Most County services are available online, and residents should continue to follow safer at home guidelines and limit travel to help slow the spread of the virus. This includes any visits to County facilities, and residents should schedule appointments whenever possible rather than simply coming to a facility.The following County facilities will open May 18: Administration BuildingAppointment-only services for Assessor, Clerk & Recorder, and Treasurer Offices. Note:Driver’s license and passport services will not be available.CentrePoint Plaza – Department of Human ServicesWalk-up services for community and child support services, and for use of the TouchPay kiosk for child support payments, benefit repayments and more.Child and adult protection services, and legal and finance services by appointment only. Drop-box available just outside the main entrance for document drop-off only.Lima PlazaAppointment-only services for Public Works and Development, Open Spaces, and Community Resources.Sheriff’s OfficeOpen by appointment only for Concealed Handgun Program (CHP) permits and fingerprinting. CHP permit renewals can be completed online.County courthousesAll residents should check ArapahoeGov.com/COVID19 for specific hours and appointment scheduling before they visit any County facility. If officials at a facility or office determine that a space’s capacity is getting too constrained to practice safe social distancing, they have the authority to limit further visits or move people to waiting areas until the number of patrons drops to an acceptable level. All County facilities will have no more than 50 percent of staff on site at any given time. All County employees will be required to wear masks at work, and some public-facing employees will also wear gloves when appropriate. Visitors will be required to wear masks while inside these facilities.Each facility will have social distance markings, posted reminders about safe health and hygiene practices, queue lines, security personnel and staff monitors to ensure that employees and visitors are helping reduce the chances of exposing others to the coronavirus. Facility cleaning protocols have been increased throughout the workday, and employees will wipe down individual areas between each public transaction.For more information about Arapahoe County’s reopening protocols and health and safety guidelines, visit ArapahoeGov.com/COVID19.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1642


 Businesses will be able to open at lower density and following best practicesTri-County Health Department (TCHD), along with other Denver Metro health departments, will allow its Stay-at-Home order to expire May 8 at midnight for Adams and Arapahoe counties. With that expiration, each of Tri-County Health Department’s counties--Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas counties--will be under the State’s current Safer-at-Home order. This means that on May 9, Critical Businesses can remain open, and many non-Critical Businesses can begin to open, with some restrictions.“We want to thank our entire community for the unprecedented effort made by so many to enhance our social distancing and allow us to make our communities safer during the COVID-19 epidemic. This has clearly involved social, psychological, and economic hardship for many. While COVID-19 will continue to be with us for the foreseeable future, our hospitals now have sufficient capacity and medical equipment, and we have the support systems in place to deliver the best healthcare we can if a surge should take place,” said John M. Douglas, Jr., MD, Executive Director of Tri-County Health Department. “I am grateful for the sacrifices that our community has made to slow the spread of COVID-19, and we must remain vigilant to continue that trend and keep our communities safe while we gradually re-open our businesses.”Since the local extension of the Stay-At-Home order began on April 27, access to COVID-19 testing and personal protective equipment (PPE) has started to improve, with the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) providing additional testing and PPE to local providers and test sites. TCHD is working closely with medical providers to increase testing and capacity to do contact tracing for COVID-19.  Over the past two weeks, testing in Adams and Arapahoe Counties has increased by 109% and 86%, respectively, while over the same time period, TCHD has more than doubled staff who are trained to undertake case investigation, contact notification, and outbreak response.  Furthermore, while the increase in testing means that the reported number of cases in our counties has not yet declined, the number of persons hospitalized due to COVID-19 continues to go down, which is a very encouraging sign.With businesses beginning to reopen, it is important to remember that many of the actions required under the Stay-at-Home order still apply. It is critical that businesses follow best practices for reopening, and more information can be found at https://covid19.colorado.gov/safer-at-home  or www.tchd.org/coronavirus.TCHD has developed tools for businesses, including a checklist, that provide reopening guidance. In addition, TCHD has a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) page. Reopening information will also be provided on Town Hall events occurring throughout the week. “Businesses are anxious to reopen and want to make sure they have everything in place to do so,” said Douglas. “We thank the business community and county and city leadership for their patience and support through this trying time.”Individuals are strongly advised to continue staying at home to the greatest extent possible, only interacting with household members and only leaving for essential activities. Of particular importance, those at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as people 65 and older and those with underlying medical problems, should continue to stay at home unless leaving is absolutely necessary.In addition, everyone should continue to take the following disease prevention actions to protect themselves and others in their family and community:Wear a non-medical mask or face covering when away from your home, particularly in indoor settings where social distancing is difficult.Stay at least six feet away from others if you must go out.If you have symptoms of COVID-19, isolate yourself and contact your health care providerDo not go to work or other public spaces if you are sick.Wash your hands frequently with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.Only travel when absolutely essential.For more information about the Safer-at-Home level, visit www.tchd.org/coronavirus or covid19.colorado.gov/safer-at-home.-end-Tri-County Health Department serves over 1.5 million people in Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties. It provides over 60 programs and services including birth certificates, immunizations, WIC, restaurant inspections, family planning, STI/HIV Testing, and infectious disease investigations. For more information, visit www.tchd.org Twitter @TCHDHealth or Facebook @cotchd. 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1630


 The Stay-at-Home public health order remains in place for Arapahoe County residents until May 8, but certain businesses may offer curbside and delivery service starting April 27.Arapahoe County retail businesses may begin offering curbside pickup and delivery services from April 27 to May 8, per Tri-County Health Department’s public health order that extended the state Stay-at-Home Order. Guidance and best practices for curbside and delivery services available at https://bit.ly/RetailCurbsideDeliveryServiceCOVID19


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1625


 Tri-County Health Department’s Board of Health directs executive director to develop Public Health Orders extending Gov. Polis Stay at Home order with few exceptionsTri-County Health Department will be extending Gov. Polis Stay at Home order until May 8th in Arapahoe and Adams Counties in an effort to stem the ongoing high level of COVID-19 virus infection in these counties. Douglas County, which has had case numbers level off in recent weeks will not be subject to this order and will continue with the Governor’s Safer at Home order released earlier this week.“We want to get people back to work as soon as it is safer to do so,” said John M. Douglas, Jr., MD, Executive Director of Tri-County Health Department. “This extension in Adams and Arapahoe will give us more time to do several things: expand public health measures such as testing and contact notification, develop and implement strategies in partnership with our business community on how to safely reopen, and to encourage the public to practice social distancing and other safety measures---all of which should hopefully reduce the spread of this disease.”TCHD along with other Denver Metro health departments — Jefferson County Public Health, Broomfield County Public Health, Boulder County Public Health, Denver Public Health and Environment– has been looking carefully at the Governor’s Safer-at-Home plan for dealing with COVID-19, including his request that each county and region examine their own data and context and make decisions appropriate for the nature of the epidemic in their areas. TCHD has done so and has come to the conclusion that, like much of the Metro area, Adams and Arapahoe Counties are not yet ready to relax the restrictions that were put in place with the Governor’s Stay-at-Home order.The key difference between the statewide Stay-at-Home order and the Tri-County’s planned extension of the order in Adams and Arapahoe counties is the allowance for non-Critical Businesses to begin to offer curbside delivery of products as a step to helping our businesses re-open. Additionally, travel to pick up these goods will now be included in the definition for necessary travel.Governor Polis’ “Safer at Home” order calls for a gradual reopening of businesses throughout the state. Some businesses can open April 27, for example, retail businesses can offer curbside service. Salons and other personal services can re-open May 1, with strict protocols. Restaurant, bars and venues will remain closed.Tri-County Health Department will issue the public health orders for Adams and Arapahoe County by Sunday, April 26, 2020.-end-Tri-County Health Department serves over 1.5 million people in Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties. It provides over 60 programs and services including birth certificates, immunizations, WIC, restaurant inspections, family planning, STI/HIV Testing, and infectious disease investigations. For more information, visit www.tchd.org Twitter @TCHDHealth or Facebook @cotchd.  


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1608





Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1595


 Aurora, Colo., March 27, 2020 – Arapahoe County child and adult protection workers have stepped up health protection protocols to help slow the spread of COVID-19 among both clients and staff when delivering human services and protection services for at-risk adults in Arapahoe County.  Prior to face-to-face contact, screeners and caseworkers are asking every client questions about recent travel, their general health and well-being, and whether they may have had any physical contact with someone with COVID-19. The answers will help workers plan a proper response. If caseworkers are responding to a call of abuse and neglect and health concerns exist in the household, personal protective equipment (PPE) is available as recommended by the Arapahoe County Office of Emergency Management.  It is a state and federal requirement that our primary operations continue during this time. The welfare and safety of the public, especially vulnerable children, families and at-risk adults, continues to be a priority in Arapahoe County, as essential governmental functions will remain open during the Stay at Home Public Health Order  issued by Gov. Polis and the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment effective Mar. 26. All Arapahoe County buildings will remain closed to the public through at least April 17, 2020 to help curb the spread of COVID-19, but Human Services caseworkers are working remotely in order to continue to meet the needs of Arapahoe County citizens. All essential meetings and team efforts are being conducted via video conferencing or phone. “More than ever, we rely on technology to help us visit our clients virtually, and check in on families during this crisis,” said Arapahoe County Human Services Director, Cheryl Ternes. “But as an essential governmental agency, we have a duty to provide the services and face-to-face contact that are required in many cases to ensure that children and youth in Arapahoe County are protected from abuse and neglect.” Arapahoe County remains committed to delivering our crucial human services, and we thank all the citizens who are abiding by the issued stay-at-home order and promoting the health and the safety of our children, families and at-risk adults. Our crisis hotline remains open, and reports of potential abuse and neglect to children and at-risk adults will continue to be received with no disruption. Please report potential child abuse or neglect by calling 303-636-1750 or 1-844-CO-4-KIDS (1-844-264-5437). More than half of all child abuse and neglect phone calls received in Arapahoe County come from mandatory reporters, including teachers and school staff. While schools are closed in order to slow the spread of COVID-19, it is even more important that everyone report their concerns about the safety and well-being of a child or teen. For general questions to Arapahoe County Child and Adult Protection Services call 303-636-1589. # # #  Connect with Arapahoe County Stay informed and give us your input about Arapahoe County Government. Sign up for news releases, agendas and updates to our website via our Notify Me Link at www.arapahoegov.com. Or, connect with us via Facebook, Twitter, Nextdoor, Instagram, YouTube and LinkedIn. 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1588





Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1574


 View PDF version of this press releaseView PDF version of the Stay-At-Home Public Health OrderThree Metro Denver Public Health Departments Issue Stay-At-Home Orders to Stop the Spread of COVID-19Jefferson County, Colo. — Three public health departments serving more than 2 million residents across the Metro Denver region joined together to issue Stay-At-Home Public Health Orders in their counties today, effective March 26 at 8:00 a.m. until April 17 at 11:59 p.m. unless officials determine it is in the interest of public health to expire at an earlier date and time. The departments include Boulder County Public Health, Jefferson County Public Health and Tri-County Health Department (which serves Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties).“There is widespread transmission of COVID-19 in the Metro Denver area, and we must take bold actions to stop the spread of this virus,” said John M. Douglas, Jr., MD, executive director of Tri-County Health Department. “With each passing day, we run a growing risk of greater transmission and illness and quickly overwhelming our hospitals, which are really a resource for our entire region and state. When this happens, not everyone may get the care they need. It’s a real possibility in Colorado — and a situation which has already occurred in countries such as Italy — and which is threatening to happen in major U.S. cities in other areas of our country. We understand the toll that measures to address the pandemic are having on our communities, and we want to reassure residents that this step is temporary, and a critical one to get us closer to recovery.”These Stay-At-Home Orders are in addition to other recently issued public health orders that promote social distancing, such as those from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. While beneficial, we do not believe they have done enough to slow transmission. The Stay-At-Home Orders go a step further by requiring individuals to do their part by staying at home and away from others.The Public Health Orders require that all people in each county stay at their place of residence, and that they make every effort possible to conduct only essential activities necessary to maintain health and well-being, such as getting groceries, obtaining medical supplies or medication, and/or engaging in outdoor activities like walking, hiking or running while following other social distancing practices.Work to provide essential business and government services or perform essential public infrastructure construction, including housing, is also permitted. People at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and people who are sick are urged to stay in their residence except to seek medical care.“Scientific evidence shows that we must act now, at this stage of the COVID-19 emergency, in order to save lives in the long-run. It will give us the time we need to test comprehensively and to slow the spread of the virus to prevent our health care system from being overwhelmed,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health executive director.“The virus is easily spread through person-to-person contact, and the risk of transmission is much greater when people are in close proximity,” said Dr. Mark B. Johnson, Jefferson County Public Health executive director. “This order will help protect everyone in our community by ensuring social distancing measures are followed. By taking this action now, we can start to flatten the pandemic curve.” Examples of Activities Permitted and Not Permitted Under the Stay-At-Home Orders*PERMITTEDGetting medical care for you, a family member or your petVisiting a health care professionalGetting medical supplies or medicationGoing to get groceries, food (via takeout, drive-thru, food banks/pantries) or other essential household itemsGetting supplies to work from homePicking up materials from your child’s school needed for distance learning (tablet, books)Going outside for physical activity, as long as you stay at least 6 feet away from people who are not in your household and follow social distancing practicesGoing to work, ONLY if you provide essential products or services at an essential business (health care operations, infrastructure operations and maintenance, certain government functions)NOT PERMITTEDIn-person public or private gatherings of any size with people outside of your residenceTraveling, except to get or provide essential services or medical careCarpooling with anyone outside of your residence*This is not a comprehensive list. Please refer to the orders for a complete list of essential activities and services, as well as social distancing requirements.During the stay-at-home period, we encourage our communities to stay connected with one another and take steps to maintain health and well-being. Here are some ideas:Call or video chat with friends, neighbors and family.Go for a walk outside, but keep at least 6 feet away from others.Plan a family game night with people who already live in your home.Read a good book, listen to music or stream a favorite show.Cook a healthy meal.Get a head-start on spring cleaning.Do arts and crafts — get creative and use what’s available in your home.For more information about COVID-19 and resources availability in your community:Boulder CountyJefferson CountyAdams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1568


 March 23, 2020—The Arapahoe County Board of County Commissioners has announced that all county facilities will remain closed to the public effective through at least April 17, 2020. This closure is designed to help curb the spread of COVID-19, and the decision is consistent with guidelines issued by the White House, and by state and public health officials.The county will continue to make a number of its services available online, and many county operations will continue during this closure. The Board of County Commissioners is working closely with the Tri-County Health Department and the county’s Office of Emergency Management to monitor the situation and will make any changes as new data or guidance becomes available.County departments and offices will maintain reduced staffing levels to support essential operations, while other employees will work from home.For more information, visit ArapahoeGov.com/covid19.-30-


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1565


 On March 20, 2020, Governor Polis signed an Executive Order granting County Treasurers the authority to waive delinquent interest on late tax payments. This Executive Order will remain in effect for 30 days, until April 20, 2020. Based on this Executive Order, Treasurer Sue Sandstrom will waive interest as follows:For those taxpayers who did not make a first half tax payment by the March 2 due date, and those who would now have difficulty making a full payment by the April 30 due date, you may now make the first half payment of your tax liability by April 20, 2020, and interest will be waived. Your second half payment will then be due by June 15.Full payments remain due by April 30, and payments made after April 30 will still be subject to delinquent interest, unless the Governor extends the Executive Order, or the State Legislature provides statutory relief.For those taxpayers who have already made a first half payment, your second half payment is due by June 15. If not made by June 15, such payments will still be subject to delinquent interest, unless the Governor extends the Executive Order or the State Legislature provides statutory relief.IMPORTANT: Please note that due to automation features, our online and over-the-phone payment system cannot waive interest. To take advantage of the waiver of interest on first half payments, you must mail your payment to our office or utilize the ballot box outside of the Administration Building as a drop box.Payments remitted by mortgage companies and title agencies are not included in this waiver of first half payment interest. Interest on delinquent payments from prior years and redemption interest on tax liens are also excluded from this waiver.Limited Payment Locations During County ClosureDuring the county closure, property tax payments will still be accepted. Those that wish to drop off their payments may put their payments in the Clerk and Recorder’s Ballot Box outside of the Administration Building located at 5334 S. Prince St., Littleton, CO 80120. Please do not put cash in the ballot box. This is the ONLY dropbox location available during the closure. Payments made by mail, online, or over the phone will be accepted as normal.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1553


 Telephone Town Hall Rescheduled Due to the spring blizzard hitting the Front Range and the impact it has on our emergency responders, tonight’s COVID-19 Telephone Town Hall is being rescheduled for Tuesday, March 24 at 7 p.m. We apologize for any inconvenience and hope you’ll join us next week for important updates. -------------The March 19 event will provide the latest coronavirus news and best practicesOn Thursday, March 19, at 7 p.m., Douglas, Adams and Arapahoe counties will host a COVID-19 Virtual Town Hall with Tri-County Health Department officials, county leaders, and subject matter experts from each county, to update participants about the latest developments in the coronavirus health crisis.The virtual town hall will be aired live beginning at 7:00 p.m., on ArapahoeGov.com/townhall, as well as on the County’s Facebook page. The recorded event will be posted online following the meeting. Callers may also listen in and ask questions during the town hall by dialing 1-855-436-3656, and County officials also will call its entire list of land lines and cell phones beginning at 7 p.m.Tri-County Health Department officials will provide updates on the status of the virus in the three-county area, which serves more than 1.5 million residents. They will also provide information about proactive measures being taken to maximize community safety and other fundamental information such as: what is the transmission risk; what are the best actions individuals and businesses can take right now; what are the latest policy actions from state and federal officials, and more. The bulk of the session will be dedicated to taking questions from the tri-county audience. In keeping with the current social distancing guidelines, the representative from each county and from Tri-County Health will be participating remotely.For more information about the event, visit ArapahoeGov.com/townhall. 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1547


 Arapahoe County closes county facilities to the public from March 17-27 due to COVID-19 concernsEmployees expected to report to work Tuesday; essential county services will continue during closureLittleton, CO—March 16, 2020—The Arapahoe County Board of County Commissioners has closed all county facilities to the public effective Tuesday, March 17, 2020, through at least March 27, 2020. This closure is consistent with guidelines issued by the White House. There are number of services available online; essential county operations will continue during this closure. The Board of County Commissioners will hold their regularly scheduled public hearing Tuesday and assess future meetings going forward.The 18th Judicial District Court is closed on Tuesday, March 17 and Wednesday, March 18, 2020 to determine future schedules and activities. More information will be posted at www.courts.state.co.us.“Our top priority is the health and safety of the community,” said Commissioner Nancy N. Sharpe, chair of the board. “Because of the high volume of residents who use our facilities, we want to ensure we are doing our part to help reduce the spread of COVID-19 while still providing the essential services our community relies on.”County employees are required to report to work as normally scheduled tomorrow. Going forward, county departments and offices will maintain reduced staffing levels to support essential county operations while other employees will work from home.On March 14, the Board of County Commissioners issued a local emergency declaration to unlock resources, organize county response strategies and provide additional assistance for municipalities that are dealing with COVID-19. The declaration allows the county to support the work of Tri-County Health in managing the health crisis.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1535


 Arapahoe County today issued a local emergency declaration to unlock resources, organize county response strategies and provide additional assistance for municipalities that are dealing with COVID-19, the coronavirus.To date, Arapahoe County has six presumptive positive cases and is working with Tri-County Health to provide resources, information and direction to the more than 650,000 residents in Arapahoe County. The declaration is authorized for seven days at which point the county could extend it for a set time period.“During an emergency, which includes a pandemic, the county is charged with taking the lead in coordinating efforts,” said Board Chair Nancy Sharpe. “This action was not taken lightly but it is the necessary trigger for that to happen. This allows Arapahoe County to direct all possible resources to help manage the response at the appropriate level and improves access to a limited supply chain.”Arapahoe County Sheriff Tyler Brown affirmed that the declaration is a necessary step in taking a measured response to the pandemic.“This declaration helps provide the county the necessary—and absolutely critical—resources needed to keep our collective community safe in a coordinated response,” said Brown. “Our efforts can be focused on providing additional public health and safety measures while also fully supporting the work of Tri-County Health in managing this crisis. Keeping our residents safe is our absolute top priority.”Although most individuals affected by COVID-19 will experience mild flu-like symptoms, some will have more serious symptoms and require hospitalization. Response and containment efforts will draw upon available local, state and county resources, which could strain supply chains and cause delays in delivery or execution. The emergency declaration allows county officials to authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance as necessary and better coordinate with the 13 municipalities within Arapahoe County.Last week, the county opened its Emergency Operations Center, which is the central clearinghouse for critical incident management. The EOC coordinates efforts with Tri-County Health and other local, state and national agencies to direct operations, resources and personnel to deal with incidents such as the coronavirus.On Wednesday, Arapahoe County joined forces with Tri-County Health and Adams and Douglas Counties to provide a virtual town hall where residents in the tri-county area asked questions and received answers from health experts about COVID-19. More than 1.5 million people live in the tri-county area. A recording of the town hall is available on the County website, the County Facebook page and the County YouTube page. A Spanish-language version is also available..For information on county efforts related to COVID-19, visit the Arapahoe County website. 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1521


 Residents and business owners are invited to submit questions to Tri-County Health, in advance of and during live virtual meeting. On Wednesday, March 11, 7– 8:30 p.m., Douglas, Adams and Arapahoe Counties will host a joint COVID-19 Virtual Town Hall to discuss the latest developments about the coronavirus and how area residents should prepare for it.All residents are invited to submit their questions to our COVID-19 survey page ahead of the event. This will help officials from each county, and from Tri-County Health, to learn more about some of the most frequently asked COVID-19 questions in their communities, and to have the opportunity to research the answers before the event. Participants also will have the opportunity to ask questions during the 90-minute town hall.The participating Tri-County Health Department officials are:John Douglas, executive director;Bernadette Ann Albanese, medical epidemiologist; andMichele Askenazi, MPH, CHES, the department’s director of emergency preparedness, response, and communicable disease surveillance.These officials will provide updates on the status of the virus in the three-county area, as well as information about proactive measures being taken to maximize community safety and other fundamental information, including what is the transmission risk of COVID-19, what are the best actions individuals and businesses can take right now, and more. Officials from Adams, Arapahoe, and Douglas counties will also be on hand to answer questions about their specific jurisdictions.How to Join the Virtual Town HallNOTICE: President Trump is addressing the nation at 7 p.m. We have decided to stream his address at the start of our virtual town hall and then commence with our event directly following. The meeting will air live from 7-8:30 p.m., Wednesday, March 11. At the time of the event you can join the virtual town hall by:Phone: Dial 1-855-436-3656 to listen in and ask questionsWebsite: Watch at arapahoegov.com/townhall and ask questionsSocial Media: Watch on Facebook at facebook.com/arapahoecounty or on YouTube at youtu.be/HAc1V6K7it0En español: livestream.com/loclyzmedia/covid19townhallThe recorded event will be posted online at arapahoegov.com/townhall following the meeting.Tri-County Health Department serves more than 1.5 million people in Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties and is the largest local public health agency in the state.


Scraping from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HAc1V6K7it0





              COVID-19
              




Get the latest information from the CDC about COVID-19.

LEARN MORE



Scraping from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ftdi1Gi39sM





              COVID-19
              




Get the latest information from the CDC about COVID-19.

LEARN MORE



Scraping from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HAc1V6K7it0





              COVID-19
              




Get the latest information from the CDC about COVID-19.

LEARN MORE



Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?CID=1





Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/1581/Telephone-Town-Hall-Meetings


--------------------------------------------


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/covid19




County buildings are reopening on a staggered schedule and with restrictions. Please do not visit County buildings (which include County Motor Vehicle services) without reading the "Reopening Updates" Section below. Most in-person visits are by appointment only.Arapahoe County under Safer-at-Home Order: Extended until July 1Arapahoe County is following the state’s Safer-at-Home order at the direction of the Tri-County Health Department (TCHD). This means that Critical Businesses can remain open, and many non-Critical Businesses can begin to open, with some restrictions. Read the full press releaseSafer at Home overview and guidelinesSafer at Home FAQsGuidance and support for businessesUnincorporated Arapahoe County Temporary Outdoor Seating VarianceSafer-at-Home Fast FactsCritical businesses are still open.Non-critical businesses are open with restrictions.Stay at home as much as possible.Practice good hygiene. Wash your hands frequently and don’t touch your face.Wear a face covering or mask when you leave your home.Connect with neighbors and loved ones virtually.County Building Reopening UpdatesArapahoe County will begin reopening select buildings and services on a staggered schedule beginning May 18. At this time, most services are only available by appointment except where designated. All dates are subject to change. Read the full press releasePlease note, you will be asked to wear a cloth face covering or non-medical mask when visiting County facilities. You will also be asked to practice social distancing and keep at least 6-feet away from others. Markers on the floors and walls will help guide you. Watch this short Reopening Facilities video on what to expect when visiting. Details by Department and Service Follow:Arapahoe/Douglas Works! Workforce CenterA/D Works! Call center: 303-636-1160In-person visits to Altura Plaza are by appointment only. The Workforce Center is taking calls from all locations. Staff are working online, one-on-one, with job seekers and businesses, and they’re presenting online classes to assist in developing skills for job searching. Visit the A/D Works! Website to access available services.Assessor’s OfficeAdministration Building offices in Littleton opens May 18; Altura Plaza offices open May 26Telephone hours of service: 303-795-4600; Monday-Friday, 7:30 a.m.- 5 p.m.In-person hours of service by appointment only, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m.A drop box has been installed outside the Administration Building for document submissions.A temporary drop box is available in the lobby of Altura Plaza, near the guard station.Appointment-only services for:Ownership changesMobile home transfersSenior/veteran’s exemptionsResearchGeneral QuestionsValuation protests will be heard by phone appointment onlyCivil Unions – see Clerk & Recorder’s OfficeClerk & Recorder’s OfficeAdministration Building offices in Littleton and Centennial are open; Aurora to open June 8Byers Motor Vehicle office will open at a later date. Watch for details. In-person hours of service by appointment only, Monday-Friday, 7 a.m. – 4 p.m. Appointments for the Littleton, Centennial and Aurora Branches can be made online for:Motor Vehicle registration, license plates and motor vehicle titlesRecording legal documents and issuing marriage licenses, civil unionsNote: Although the scheduling tool lists all four Clerk and Recorder branches, the Byers Branch is still not available for appointments. Make an appointment with our online scheduling tool No passport services are available at this time. Customers will need to visit a different acceptance facility for passports.No driver’s license appointments at this time. Customers will need to visit a state office for this service. Please note: The Clerk and Recorder is limiting in-person appointments to two people maximum. Cloth face coverings or masks are required.Elections: To check or update your voter registration information, visit: ArapahoeVotes.com/my-voter-infoVoter Services appointments availableColorado State University ExtensionCSU Extension is open by appointment only. Please call 303-730-1920 to schedule.Colorado Master Gardeners is available via phone at 303-730-1920 or email: mastergardener@arapahoegov.com.More info at the Arapahoe County-CSU Extension websiteElections – see Clerk and Recorder’s OfficeFairgrounds and ParkThe Arapahoe County Fairgrounds and Park is closed until further notice, and the difficult decision has been made to cancel the 2020 Arapahoe County Fair.Community ResourcesArapahoe Plaza offices open May 18. Most programs and services are being offered online or by appointment only. Housing and Community Development ServicesFor Emergency Rent Assistance, call 303-738-8061 or email cshropshire@arapahoegov.com to determine eligibility. For other low-income housing needs and information, call 303-738-8040.Judicial Services In-person case supervision resumes by appointment only; no walk-in services until further notice. To schedule an appointment, call 720-874-3350 or email pretrial@arapahoegov.com or communityservice@arapahoegov.com. Senior Resources Grocery shopping and prescription pick-up assistance available for seniors 60+ and for those with disability. For eligibility, call 303-738-8080 and leave a message. Call 303-738-8080 for connections to additional assistance/other services.Weatherization In-home services have resumed. Call 303-636-1982 for eligibility and information. 18th Judicial DistrictJury trials are postponed through July 3, 2020Public access to Arapahoe Plaza and Arapahoe County Judicial Center beginning May 18.Limited courtroom operations at Arapahoe Plaza and Arapahoe County Judicial Center through July 3. As much as possible, court proceedings will be conducted by video or phone.Please visit the 18th Judicial District website for details.Human ServicesMain office at CentrePoint Plaza, 14980 E Alameda Dr, Aurora, CO 80012, will open May 18. Hours of service: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m., mostly by appointment; walk-in services available with strict social distancing protocols. Masks are required. Please call ahead or visit us online first.The satellite office at Arapahoe Plaza, 1690 W Littleton Blvd, Littleton, CO 80120, remains closed.General assistance: 303-636-1130, M-F 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.Community Support Services: 303-636-1170Colorado PEAK: Apply online at www.Colorado.gov/PEAKColorado Child Care Assistance Program, Financial Assistance, Food assistance, Heat and energy assistance, Medical assistanceColorado PEAK is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week, on your smartphone, tablet or computer. The state portal is safe and secure, which means your personal information is protected.Colorado Works Emergency Disaster Program: Arapahoe County families in need of emergency assistance during COVID-19 may qualify for short-term, state-sponsored financial assistance. Apply through Colorado PEAK.Eligibility:Family’s annual gross income must be below $75,000 combinedThe household must contain at least one child age 18 or youngerFamily must present a significant need for services directly related to the COVID-19 emergencyFamily must be legally present in the U.S.Assistance may include, but is not limited to, the following types:Purchase or lease of shelterTransportation (including car repairs and purchase)Non-covered medical expensesWork-related supplies that were lost or damagedCounseling servicesNon-medical mental health servicesChild Support Services: call 303-752-8900 or email childsupport@arapahoegov.comEstablishing, enforcing or modifying Child Support Orders, accepting Child Support payments and other services.Child Support Payments: Please contact the Colorado Family Support Registry by calling 1-800-374-6558.Child Custody, Visitation, Child Support Records, or Hearings: Please contact the 18th Judicial District Courts by calling 303-645-6600.Child and Adult Protection Services: 303-636-1589Child and Adult abuse hotline: 303-636-1750 Appointment-only for services including foster care, adoption and adolescent/youth in conflict services, community prevention and development programs, Listening to the Needs of Kids (LINKS) meetings and parenting time visitations.Clients will have access to paperwork pick-up or drop-off, phone to call center, copy machine available inside lobby.Payments of child support monthly orders, benefit repayment plans (Claims), etc., continue to be accepted at the TouchPay Kiosk located in the vestibule at CenterPoint and online at www.Touchpayonline.comCommunity resources near you: www.ArapaSOURCE.orgFind services in and around Arapahoe County that support you and your family. Categories include: aging services, child care and parent resources, clothing, dental assistance, disability services, domestic violence, employment and job training, family services and support, food assistance, general and financial assistance, legal services, medical assistance, mental health services, shelters and housing assistance, substance abuse, transportation services, veterans services and vision assistance. Human ResourcesHuman Resources is currently closed to the general public; however, staff are on hand to answer calls at 303-795-4482 and via email at humanresources@arapahoegov.com or view open positions within the CountyMarriage Licenses – see Clerk and RecorderMotor Vehicle – see Clerk and RecorderOpen SpacesLima Office opens May 18. In-person hours of services are by appointment only, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. Appointments can be made by calling 720-874-6540. All Arapahoe County trails are open; however, visitors should abide by social distancing guidelines, wear a face cover or mask and follow proper hygiene before and after using public spaces.Public TrusteePlease note that the Arapahoe County Public Trustee office is closed to the public until further notice. If you need to deliver payments or documents during this time, please call our office at 303-730-0071 to make arrangements to do so.Foreclosure recordings have been suspended until June 15, 2020 and foreclosure sales have been continued to July 8, 2020.The office continues to process Releases of Deeds of Trust until further notice via electronic means, via Simplifile or CSC, or via U.S. Postal Service, FedEx, UPS or other private courier service. Contact the Public Trustee’s office at 303-730-0071 or visit their web page for more details.Public Works & DevelopmentLima Street office open by appointment only beginning May 18.  Call 720-874-6500 Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Use Citizen Access for Building, Engineering and Planning cases, permits, applications and more. Building: Inspections (residential & commercial) have resumed and will be scheduled based on site-specific conditions. Info at www.arapahoegov.com/building, 720-874-6600 or pwdbuildingsupport@arapahoegov.com Planning: 720-874-6650 for planning services or use Citizen Access to check project status Zoning: 720-874-6711 or email zoning@arapahoegov.com for zoning, subdivision and weed regulations and enforcement Engineering: 720-874-6500 for general inquiries or Citizen Access to check project status Animal control: 720-874-6750 or email pwdanimalcontrol@arapahoegov.com for field response, complaints, reports or other questions Records requests: 720-874-6500 or email PWDRecords@ArapahoeGov.com for unincorporated parts of the County Mapping: 720-874-6686 for services Road & Bridge: 720-874-ROAD (7623) for questions about current projects and/or request for service Transportation/Traffic: call 720-874-6500 for questions about current projects or traffic service requests Sheriff’s OfficeThe Sheriff’s Office headquarters opens May 18 Appointments are being taken only for Concealed Handgun Program (CHP) and fingerprinting. Applicants can call 720-874-3929 to schedule; appointments are available Monday-Thursday, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Anyone seeking to renew concealed handgun permits are urged to do so online.TreasurerAdministration Building office in Littleton opens May 18.Telephone hours of service: 303-795-4550; Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4 p.m.Appointments can be made by phone at 303-795-4550 for select transactions that must be completed in person. No walk-ins. A drop box has been installed outside of the west side the Administration Building, for document and payment submissions. 





