Scraping from https://dubuquecounty.org/477/Coronavirus-COVID-19


he Dubuque County Health Department is working closely with the Iowa Department of Public Health (IDPH), the City of Dubuque Health Services Department and the Dubuque County Healthcare Preparedness Coalition in response to the COVID-19 outbreak.

The Test Iowa Clinic at Epic Health & Wellness at 1075 Cedar Cross Road in Dubuque will continue to offer testing for any Iowa resident until further notice. To avoid the hottest part of the day and minimize traffic congestion, the testing schedule for next week is:
Monday, July 13: 5 a.m. - 9 a.m.
Tuesday, July 14: 5 a.m. - 9 a.m.
Wednesday, July 15: 5 a.m. - 9 a.m.
Thursday, July 16: 5 a.m. - 9 a.m.
Friday, July 17: No Testing
If you go to this testing clinic, please abide by the posted traffic instructions and do not block driveways. If you are advised by traffic control or clinic staff that you will not be tested that day due to the length of the waiting line, please leave and come back another day or go to another Test Iowa site in another community.
Any Iowan who would like to be tested for COVID-19 at these locations must first complete the Test Iowa assessment at 
www.testiowa.com
. They will then be provided an identification number, which is required to be tested. To take an assessment or request a test, visit 
www.testiowa.com
.
Residents without internet access or who need assistance completing the assessment should contact the Dubuque Visiting Nurses Association (VNA) for assistance at 563.556.6200.
Dubuque County wants to ensure that all members of the public and employees are safe while in county facilities.  If you are unable to find the information you need on our website, please see the links below for more information about how to contact the offices.
If you need to visit the following offices in-person, you must schedule an appointment:
City Assessor, County Attorney, Finance (Auditor), Elections, GIS/Mapping, Recorder and Treasurer
Please note we recommend using Google Chrome, Firefox, or Safari as internet browsers for scheduling an appointment.

Iowa Department of Public Health Twitter Page

