


Scraping from http://whatcomcounty.us/3377/Media-Press





Scraping from http://whatcomcounty.us/3404/Masks-and-Face-Coverings



Masks and Face Coverings		
Page updated: Wednesday, July 8, 2:55 pmI am looking for...Why Wear a Face CoveringWhere You Need To Wear A Face CoveringWho Should Wear a Face CoveringWhat Kind of Face Coverings to UseHow to Properly Wear Face CoveringsWhere to Get a Face Covering If You Can’t Buy OneInformation for Deaf, Hard of Hearing, and Deafblind Community MembersGuidance For Businesses and EmployersEnforcementCloth Face Coverings and Masks FAQMask Donation InformationThere are currently three face covering orders in place for Washington State:Starting June 8, 2020, employers are required to provide face coverings that must be worn by all employees who don’t work alone at no cost to the employee.Starting June 26, 2020, all individuals must wear a face covering in indoor public spaces and in outdoor public settings when you can’t stay six feet apart from others.Starting July 7, 2020, businesses are required and enforce the use of face coverings by all customers, clients, and visitors.For more information, see this overview of COVID-19 statewide face covering requirements and the Washington State Coronavirus Response website face masks page.Why Wear a Face CoveringFace coverings are an additional tool we can use to stop the spread of COVID-19 in our community. They protect others by blocking droplets that contain the virus from spreading to others when someone with the infection coughs, sneezes, or speaks.Face coverings do not replace the need for frequent handwashing or social distancing measures.Where You Need To Wear A Face CoveringWashington State residents and visitors must wear face coverings in most public settings. Wear a face covering when you are at any indoor or outdoor public space where you may be within six feet of someone who does not live with you.Public spaces include:Stores that sell food and beverages, such as grocery stores, pharmacies, convenience stores, and farmer’s markets.Retail stores, such as auto supply stores, hardware stores, and garden stores. Restaurant take-out businesses. Employees who prepare, carry out, and deliver food must wear masks.Buses, rideshares, and other forms of public transportation.Workplaces for manufacturing, agriculture, construction, and other trades.Outdoor public settings when you cannot maintain six feet of distance between yourself and others.This order will remain in effect until it is repealed or replaced by the Secretary of Health, or until it is ended by the Governor.Who Should Wear a Face CoveringEveryone is required to wear face coverings in public settings unless they are in one of the following groups:Children younger than five years old:Children who are younger than two years old should never wear face coverings due to risk of suffocation. It is strongly recommended that children who are two to four years old use face coverings in public settings with the assistance and close supervision of an adult. Persons with a medical condition, mental health condition, or disability that prevents wearing a face covering. This includes, but is not limited to, persons with a medical condition for whom wearing a face covering could obstruct breathing, who are unconscious, incapacitated, or otherwise unable to remove a face covering without assistance.What Kind of Face Coverings to UseFace coverings are also called cloth masks, face coverings, or face masks. You can use:Cloth face maskScarvesBandanas Face coverings should fit snugly over your nose and mouth. Do not use medical masks or N95 respirators. These should be saved for healthcare workers and people who have special health needs.  The CDC has sew, and no sew, instructions for making your own face covering. If you would rather purchase a face covering there are a variety online retail options. For more information see this document about what type of face covering to use.How to Properly Wear Face Coverings Your mask should cover your nose and mouth at all times.Always wash your hands with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer before you put on a face covering and after removing it.Change your face covering when it gets moist.Wash your face covering after each use.Learn more about how to appropriately wear a face covering here: EnglishSpanishRussianAdditional guidance on using face coverings is available from the Washington State Department of Health.Where to Get a Face Covering If You Can’t Buy OneThe CDC has information on how to make your own face covering.GetUsPPE has many mask patterns that have been reviewed by medical personnel. The Hearing Speech and Deafness Center has Instructions for Clear Window Masks. To help individuals in need of a mask, Whatcom Unified Command has distributed more than 137,000 masks to social service partners throughout Whatcom County who have and will continue to, distribute masks to their clients and subsidiary agencies. The distribution includes agencies that provide direct service or support to populations that are vulnerable or low-income, such as:Food banksLummi Nation and Nooksack TribeAll public school districts (distributed by Bellingham School District)Whatcom Homeless Service CenterCouncil on AgingOpportunity Council, andSea Mar Community Health CenterIf you are an individual in need of a mask, please contact your local food bank or social service provider. If you are an agency that serves individuals who are low income and reside in Whatcom County, Lummi Reservation, or Nooksack Reservation, Whatcom Unified Command has partnered with the North Sound Accountable Community of Health to distribute 40,000 cloth masks to our community’s most vulnerable residents. Request cloth masks on this form. If you are a business in need of face coverings or masks, Whatcom Unified Command distributed 100,000 to local Chambers of Commerce in June to help businesses reopen.  Check the Bellingham Regional Chamber of Commerce website for details and current availability. Access a copy of local vendors for masks and other personal protective equipment on the Whatcom Unified Command’s website. Information for Deaf, Hard of Hearing, and Deafblind Community MembersThis directive affects community members who are deaf, hard of hearing, or deafblind in different ways than others. We’ve compiled resources to explain how the directive applies to you if you are deaf, hard of hearing, or deafblind.Resources from Public Health Seattle King County:Video: Information on face covering directive for Deaf, Hard of Hearing and DeafBlind community members (ASL video)Factsheet: Tips for Using Face Coverings and Communicating for Deaf, Hard of Hearing, and Deafblind Community Members (PDF)  Video: Face Masks & Hearing Loss (ASL video) The Center for Hearing and Communication has additional resources for wearing cloth face coverings for those who are deaf, hard of hearing, wear cochlear implants, or glasses are available.Guidance For Businesses & EmployersStarting June 8, all employees are required to wear a cloth facial covering unless they work completely alone or the job has no in-person interaction.Employers must provide cloth facial coverings to employees, unless a higher level of protection is required by their job duties. Employees may choose to wear their own facial covering at work, but it must meet the minimum level of protection based on their exposure risk. The minimum level of protection required for workers, based on exposure risk, can be found in this chart from L&I. Additional guidance from L&I about when employees should use cloth face coverings and when they are required to use respirators can be found in this publication.Businesses in Whatcom County are mandated to require customers, clients, and visitors to use face coverings. You can find signs to post at your business or place of employment in the upper right side of this page. The order does not require a customer to provide documentation or a reason if they are unable to wear a face covering. Businesses are encouraged to offer some kind of accommodation for these customers such as curbside pickup, delivery, or a scheduled appointment when physical distancing can be ensured. More information can be found in the overview of face covering requirements.EnforcementPeople are urged to comply with this State Health Order because it is an effective way to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Members of the public are required by law to comply with this order. Noncompliance with this order may be subject to criminal penalties pursuant to RCW 43.70.130(7), RCW 70.05.120(4), and WAC 246-100-070(3).If you see an individual who is not wearing a face covering, practice compassion, and remember that some people have conditions or circumstances that would make wearing a cloth face covering difficult or dangerous. Just wear your face covering, stay six feet away, and wash your hands often.  Businesses not following this order can be reported using the state’s online complaint form. Compliance will be monitored by the Washington State Department of Labor & Industries as a safety and health violation. A violation could carry a penalty of nearly $10,000 or more.Please do not call 911 to report non-compliance with this order. Only call 911 in an emergency.



Scraping from http://whatcomcounty.us/3374/Resources-for-Businesses-Organizations



Resources for Businesses and Community Organizations		
Page updated July 9, 2020 at 1:00 pm  I am looking for:Safe Start reopening guidance   Sector-specific guidanceWhat to do if a worker tests positive or is sickEconomic support for COVID-19               On May 4, Governor Inlsee signed an order to re-open Washington State’s economy under the state’s “Safe Start” plan. Safe Start Reopening GuidanceA lot of information exists to help businesses reopen, so we’ve created a single place to connect you to the best resources we’ve found to guide you through reopening. Check back soon for more tips and tools from the COVID Employer Support Task Force. Whatcom County Businesses Safe Start Guide (PDF).COVID-19 Reopening Guidance for Businesses and Workers: find current guidelines and requirements for each business sector from the state’s coronavirus website.Rebound and Recovery Toolkit: From the Association of Washington Businesses, find Safe Start Plan templates, signage, and other resources.Washington State Safe Start Work Plan Template for Phase 3.Masks and Face Covering Guidance from Washington State Department of Health.Overview of COVID-19 Statewide Face Covering Requirements.Additional ResourcesWashington State ResourcesSafe Start Webpage: general information about Washington’s Safe Start phased approachResources and Recommendations (Washington State Department of Health (DOH)): safety and health guidance and resources.Washington State Department of Labor and Industries (L&I) COVID-19 outbreak resources, General COVID-19 work place requirements, and their COVID-19 prevention summary.National ResourcesCenters for Disease Control and Prevention: updated strategies and recommendations for employers responding to COVID-19, including cleaning and disinfection, a Resuming Business Toolkit and interim guidance for businesses and employers responding to COVID-19. U.S. Department of Labor (OSHA): information on how to protect workers from potential exposures, according to their exposure risk. Information on interim guidance and other resources for preventing exposure to and infection with COVID-19.Sector-specific GuidanceChild Care and SchoolsChecklist for child care administratorsGuidelines for Childcare Providers & Early LearningFaith CommunityEngaging Safely with Your Religious Community during the COVID-19 outbreakFAQs for Faith-Based CommunitiesGuidance for Drive-In Religious ServicesWhat to do if a worker is sick or tests positive for COVID-19Our FAQ document outlines what to do when a worker shows signs of COVID-19 or tests positive.Our staff are here to help guide you and answer questions. You can contact us:By email: health-BRT@co.whatcom.wa.usDuring business hours:  (360) 778-6100After hours: (360) 715-2588Remember that employees or volunteers who are sick should immediately be sent home and should not come to work while they are sick. 



Scraping from http://whatcomcounty.us/3356/Healthcare-Providers


