


Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/





Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/male-party-dies-at-gross-reservoir/




 


July 23, 2020

Media Contact
Public Information Unit, 303-441-1500



Male party dies at Gross Reservoir

Boulder County, Colo. - On July 23, 2020 at approximately 12:27 p.m. the Boulder County Communications Center was notified of a male party who fell in the water at Gross Reservoir. The party was unresponsive.
The approximately 50-year-old male victim and a friend were fishing in the area when his friend heard the water splash. He went over and found the unresponsive victim in the water. The reporting party started CPR and rescuers joined in this effort upon arrival. This occurred in the South Shore area of the reservoir. The victim was pronounced dead at the scene.
The following agencies assisted with this incident: Boulder County Sheriff’s Office, American Medical Response (AMR), Coal Creek Canyon Fire Protection District, Boulder Emergency Squad (BES), North Colorado Med Evac and the Boulder County Coroner’s Office.
The cause and manner of death will be determined by the Boulder County Coroner’s Office. At this time, there are no indications of foul play.
The associated Boulder County Sheriff’s Office case number is: #20-3253
###
/s/ Sergeant Jeff Pelletier

Visit us at: www.BoulderSheriff.org
Follow us on Twitter @BldrCoSheriff  |  Like us on Facebook







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/new-ride-free-lafayette-bus-service-starts-july-20/




 


July 17, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



New Ride Free Lafayette bus service starts July 20

Free, on-demand, door-to-door bus service for Lafayette
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County is pleased to announce the new Ride Free Lafayette program, a free, on-demand, door-to-door bus service that connects people to places within the City of Lafayette, CO. Service begins on Monday, July 20, 2020.
Residents and visitors can use the Ride Free Lafayette service to connect to transit stops, get to medical appointments, run errands, get to work, visit the community center and much more.
How To Book a Ride
Riders can book a ride by phone at 833-456-3359, online at www.ridefreelafayette.com, or via the On Demand Transit: Rider App (download via Apple Store or Google Play), and the Ride Free Lafayette bus will arrive at the pick-up location at the designated time.
For details on downloading, installing, and signing up for the service, view the On-Demand Transit information page. After opening the app, the transit code for the service is: lafayette
Service Hours of Operation
Ride Free Lafayette operates Monday – Sunday and holidays, 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. Service begins on Monday, July 20, 2020.
Service Area
Ride Free Lafayette operates throughout the City of Lafayette with service to the Kestrel community in Louisville. All trips need to start and end in the service area for the ride to be booked.
View or download the Free Ride Lafayette rack card (English and Spanish language)
For more information, contact Sydney Lund, Programs & Outreach Specialist for Commuting Solutions, at sydney@commutingsolutions.org or 303-604-4385.






COVID-19 Procedures
To reduce the spread of COVID-19, the following policies are in place:

If you have recently experienced any symptoms of COVID-19, including fever, cough, or sore throat, please do not ride the bus.
A mask or face covering is required to ride the bus for passengers 11 and older (and strongly recommended for those ages 3-10). Please bring your own mask.
To promote social distancing, bus capacity is limited to nine passengers or three households, whichever is less.
On the bus, please sit in the sections labeled and leave at least one row of seats between groups.
Buses are disinfected once per day, and high touch surfaces are wiped down after each trip.








Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/final-official-results-for-2020-june-primary-election/




 


July 16, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Final Official Results for 2020 June Primary Election

Boulder County successfully completed Risk-Limiting Audit





Boulder County, Colo. – The final official results from Boulder County’s 2020 June Primary Election are available now at www.BoulderCountyVotes.org.
The final official results include the Statement of Votes, a document that shows precinct-by-precinct results for each contest. The Statement of Votes will be forwarded to the Colorado Secretary of State’s office as part of the election close out process.
This past Saturday, elections staff and the appointed Audit Board (two Democratic Party and two Republican Party representatives) successfully completed the Boulder County portion of the statewide Risk-Limiting Audit. This is a post-election test that provides citizens with evidence that election results tabulated by our voting system reflect the actual votes cast by voters. The process reviews how a ballot’s votes were captured at the time it was processed by our voting system by comparing the actual physical ballots with their digital tallies captured at the time of processing. To perform the audit, the Secretary of State’s office assigns a random sampling of the exact ballots you must review out of all the ballots cast in an election.
Elections staff also completed the reconciliation process. This process provides the evidence for the Canvass Board to certify that the number of votes counted is equal to or less than the number of ballots cast and that the number of ballots cast is equal to or less than the number of eligible voters. The Reconciliation Report is also available online.
This year’s Canvass Board consisted of Boulder County Clerk Molly Fitzpatrick and party representatives from the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. Pat Feeser and Lynne McNamara represented the Democratic Party. Emily Brake and Lynda Johnson represented the Republican Party.
Wednesday afternoon via a remote video conference meeting, a majority of the Canvass Board members certified the election. The two Republican Party members of the Canvass Board declined to sign the documentation on Wednesday, citing the desire to have additional signature discrepancy reports produced and additional time to review reconciliation documentation. Regarding their request for additional reports, a legal representative from the Secretary of State’s office participating in the meeting reiterated the legal statute that their request for these reports was outside the scope and duty of their job on the Canvass Board. In regard to the additional time to review documentation, all reports and appendix material are sent to Canvass Board members 24-hours in advance and are reviewed during the meeting with time for questions, so no additional time to review documentation is needed nor is it common practice in any other county to provide additional time or reports in advance. Their decision not to sign does not impact the certification. The election results are now certified.
The canvass documents, audit documentation, and the Statement of Votes are available at www.BoulderCountyVotes.org.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/human-services-nonprofit-agencies-may-now-apply-for-2021-worthy-cause-iv-pool-funding/




 


July 15, 2020




Human services nonprofit agencies may now apply for 2021 Worthy Cause IV pool funding

Human services nonprofit agencies may now apply for 2021 Worthy Cause IV pool funding
Boulder County, Colo. - Nonprofit human service agencies and housing authorities in Boulder County may apply for capital funds through Boulder County’s 2021 Worthy Cause pool funding process now through Sept. 1, 2020. The Worthy Cause Request for Funding application for 2021 pool funding is available on the Boulder County website at www.bouldercounty.org/government/your-taxes-at-work/worthy-cause-sales-tax/. Applications must be submitted through Boulder County’s online application system by 4:30 PM on Sept. 1, 2020. Late applications will not be accepted.
During the 2017 General Election, Boulder County voters approved an extension of the Worthy Cause sales and use tax fund with 79% of the vote. The 15-year initiative allocates .05 percent of Boulder County sales and use tax revenue to Boulder County nonprofit human service agencies and housing authorities for capital projects, including the purchase of land or buildings, construction, renovation, and debt reduction. To find out more about investments made through the Worthy Cause sales and use tax, view the Worthy Cause program report at https://assets.bouldercounty.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/worthy-cause-booklet.pdf
Worthy Cause funding will be awarded to eligible nonprofit human service agencies and housing authorities through a competitive funding process, for which qualifying entities may now apply via the Request for Funding process. Awards will be made using funds generated in 2020. Worthy Cause funds have been utilized in conjunction with grants and other fundraising to strengthen services in the community related to early childhood learning, family support, basic needs such as food, clothing, housing and shelter, domestic violence, and healthcare.
For more information about Worthy Cause and the application process, contact Annie Scott ascott@bouldercounty.org or 303-441-1553.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-commissioners-extend-oil-and-gas-moratorium-in-order-to-complete-review-of-new-regulations/




 


July 14, 2020




Boulder County Commissioners extend oil and gas moratorium in order to complete review of new regulations

A new schedule for updating oil and gas regulations extends Boulder County’s moratorium through December 31, 2020





Boulder County, Colo. - The Board of County Commissioners (BOCC) extended the existing moratorium on accepting and processing new oil and gas development applications and on seismic testing through December 31, 2020.
A moratorium is in place to give staff time to review and update the county’s oil and gas regulations in light of the changes made to local authority by Senate Bill 19-181. The County’s update process will include public comment and hearings before the Boulder County Planning Commission and the Board of County Commissioners. The previously set schedule for review of the regulations was vacated due to COVID-19.
At a public hearing held virtually on July 14, County staff announced a new schedule for public review of revisions to Article 12 of the Boulder County Land Use Code addressing oil and gas development in unincorporated Boulder County.
The new timeline contemplates finalization of regulations in December 2020 and allows staff and the public to focus on important “Mission Change” rulemakings at the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (COGCC) that are occurring through October (COGCC rulemaking hearings are currently scheduled August 24-September 10 and September 28-October 9).
Public comments received by the County Commissioners in advance of the hearing widely supported extending the moratorium.

Watch the July 14 public hearing
View the staff presentation
Read the public comments 
Resolution 2020-055: Second Extension of Moratorium on Processing Oil and Gas Development Applications, July 14, 2020






Boulder County Commissioner comments

It's critical we extend the oil and gas moratorium to make sure we have the most protective rules possible for people and the environment. We need to make the most of the increased local control in the new state law, and with the pandemic, we need to take the time to get it right.

- Boulder County Commissioner Vice-Chair Matt Jones

With the covid-19 pandemic slowing everything down, we simply need more time to ensure we get our regulations right. Extending our moratorium on new oil and gas development to the year’s end is both responsible and necessary in order to fulfill our duty to our constituents. They deserve the strongest possible protections and a pause on any applications until those are in place.

- Board of County Commissioners Elise Jones

With too much still unknown about what the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission will do this fall with its new rules and how those might affect our local regulations, it doesn’t make sense to rush finalization of our regulations or lift the moratorium until we know we have the best possible regulations we can put in place.

- Board of County Commissioners Chair Deb Gardner





An initial draft of the updated regulations was posted to the County oil and gas website (https://boco.org/oilgas) on March 6, 2020 and is available for review and comment. A second draft will be published prior to the first Planning Commission hearing.
Upcoming Public Meetings
The anticipated new schedule for review of the updated oil and gas regulations is as follows (all meetings are open to the public and will be held virtually):

June – October – County staff create new draft regulations based on public input and participate in Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission (COGCC) “Mission Change” Rulemaking Process. (COGCC Hearings are currently scheduled August 24-September 10 (200-600 Series) and September 28-October 9 (800-1200 Series))
Tuesday, October 13 at 4 p.m. – Public hearing for Planning Commission to receive public testimony on the proposed oil and gas regulations. Public testimony only; no action by Planning Commission.
Thursday, October 15 at 4 p.m. – Public meeting for Planning Commission discussion and recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners or direction to staff to modify
(If necessary) Tuesday, October 27 at 4 p.m. – Planning Commission public proceedings continued, if needed.
(If necessary) Thursday, October 29 at 4 p.m. – Planning Commission public proceedings continued, if needed.
Tuesday, November 17, 2020 at 4 p.m. – Public hearing for the Board of County Commissioners (BOCC) to receive public testimony on the proposed oil and gas regulations. Public testimony only; no action by BOCC.
Thursday, November 19, 2020 at 5 p.m.– Public meeting for BOCC discussion. Adoption of regulations or direction to staff to modify regulations. No additional public testimony.
(If necessary) Thursday, December 3 at 4 p.m. - BOCC public proceedings continued, if needed.
(If necessary) Thursday, December 10 at 4 p.m. - BOCC public proceedings continued, if needed.
(If necessary) Tuesday, December 15 at 4 p.m. - BOCC public proceedings continued, if needed.
December 31, 2020 – Revised end of moratorium.

Updates to the schedule will be posted on the County’s Oil & Gas website (https://boco.org/oilgas). In addition to participating at Planning Commission and Board of County Commissioner hearings, comments and information can be emailed to oilgascomment@bouldercounty.org.






Screenshot from the live public hearing July 14, 2020






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/federal-appellate-court-deals-victory-for-improved-air-quality-in-boulder-county/





July 10, 2020




Federal appellate court deals victory for improved air quality in Boulder County

Federal appellate court deals victory for improved air quality in Boulder County
Boulder County, CO – Today a federal appellate court dealt a victory to Boulder County and other proponents of improved air quality. In a case about how boundaries are drawn around sources of air pollution in the Front Range, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals invalidated the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) designation of the Metro-Denver ozone nonattainment area.
The current ozone nonattainment area stretches along the Front Range from Castle Rock in the South to Fort Collins and Greeley in the north and west into Rocky Mountain National Park. The area did not include northern Weld County and its thousands of oil and gas sources. These sources contribute to the serious ozone problem in the Metro-Denver area and the northern Front Range of Colorado, including Boulder County.
The court ruled the EPA’s decision to exclude northern Weld County from the nonattainment area was “arbitrary and capricious.” The court has ordered EPA to reconsider its decision because the previous nonattainment decision was inadequately supported and reasoned.
“We are encouraged that the EPA will reconsider excluding northern Weld County from the ozone nonattainment area,” said Cindy Copeland, Boulder County Public Health air and climate policy specialist. “Including northern Weld County in the area would require many oil and gas sources to meet EPA requirements to reduce emissions, which would help to greatly improve ozone levels for front range residents.”
Including the Weld County area in the ozone nonattainment area would bring many additional oil and gas sources into air quality planning under EPA requirements. The resulting reductions in nitrogen oxides (NOX) and volatile organic compounds (VOC) pollution would help to greatly improve ozone levels in the Denver metro area, including Boulder County. Air quality conditions and ecosystem health at Rocky Mountain National Park could also be improved with more emissions controls.
The ruling is a result of a lawsuit against the EPA filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit by the Boulder County Board of Commissioners, the Center for Biological Diversity and National Parks Conservation Association.
 
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/july-virtual-workshops-on-accessing-transportation-options-using-smartphone-applications/




 


July 10, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



July virtual workshops on accessing transportation options using smartphone applications






July virtual workshops are free, but registration is required. 





(Boulder County, Colo.) -- Boulder County Mobility for All Program is offering live virtual transportation-related smartphone application workshops in July. The workshops aim to make transportation options more accessible for older adults, individuals with disabilities, and caregivers in Boulder County.







Interested participants will need internet, a computer, and a smartphone for these workshops. There are four virtual workshops being offered in the month of July in English. Spanish language workshops will be scheduled for August. Workshop attendees can view and register for our virtual events by visiting our Mobility for All Eventbrite webpage. Once registered, participants will receive instruction on how to join the class from their computer, tablet, or phone.
Need to travel during the COVID-19 outbreak? All workshops incorporate safe traveling precautions during the COVID-19 pandemic to protect yourself and others during travel.
Register for Mobility for All Technology July Workshops on the following dates and times by clicking the below links at:

Accessing RTD Using Apps, July 15, 2020 from 12-1:30 p.m.
Using Lyft, July 22, 2020 from 12-1:30 p.m.
Using Uber, July 29, 2020 from 12-1:30 p.m.

There is no cost to attend the workshops, but registration is required. Workshop attendees will receive credits to use with the transportation apps covered in the series.












For more information, call 720-564-2218 or email mobilityforall@bouldercounty.org











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-is-recruiting-for-advisory-board-and-commission-members/




 


July 9, 2020




Boulder County is recruiting for advisory board and commission members






Boulder County invites residents to voice opinions, provide guidance to county government. Applications open Friday, July 10.





(Boulder County, Colo.) -- Twice a year, Boulder County recruits individuals to fill vacancies on various advisory boards and commissions. For the summer recruitment effort, we are currently looking to fill 27 open volunteer positions on topics ranging from adult protection and community action programs to mosquito control and CSU Extension services.
Advisory boards and commissions provide recommendations to the Boulder County Commissioners and give residents the opportunity to have their voices heard within Boulder County government. The county, in turn, benefits from this community input.
Interested county residents who would like to voice their opinions and help guide decisions on a variety of diverse interests are encouraged to apply.

To view descriptions and requirements for all county boards and commissions, visit: www.boco.org/AdvBoardList.
To view current vacancies and fill out an application for an open board position, visit www.boco.org/BoardVacancies (Note: the link to apply will open on Friday, July 10.)

The deadline to submit applications for the summer recruitment session is Aug. 11.
For more information, call the Boulder County Commissioners’ Office at 303-441-3501.












Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-countys-election-audit-and-canvass-open-to-public-for-remote-viewing/




 


July 9, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County’s Election Audit and Canvass Open to Public for Remote Viewing

Audit to check election outcomes from the 2020 June Primary Election





Boulder County, Colo. – The public is invited to remotely observe the Boulder County Election Division’s 2020 Presidential Primary Election risk-limiting audit (RLA) beginning on Friday, July 10 along with other post-election certification activities, as detailed below.
While Boulder County and all Colorado counties have conducted post-election audits since 2005, a risk-limiting audit is considered the “gold standard” test of election results. Colorado has been conducting risk-limiting audits since 2017 and was the first state in the nation to conduct a statewide version.
What: Boulder County Risk-Limiting Audit
When: Starting Friday, July 10 (see detailed schedule below)
Who: RSVP to Vote@BoulderCountyVotes.org or by calling 303-413-7740 to obtain remote access information (video only). (For after-hours/Saturday requests, please email mwozniak@bouldercounty.org)
The risk-limiting audit is a test that helps ensure the accuracy of election results and provides the public with evidence that election outcomes reflect the votes cast by voters on their ballots. To ensure tabulation was accurate, the process reviews how a ballot’s votes were captured at the time it was processed by comparing a sample of paper ballots with digital tallies. To learn more about risk-limiting audits, see the Secretary of State’s FAQs on the RLA.
The software that facilitates the risk-limiting audit at the state level is open source, meaning anyone can examine the code themselves and other states are welcome to learn from or build upon it.
Detailed Schedule:

Friday, July 10 12 p.m. – 6:30 p.m.– Ballot Pull
Saturday, July 11, 9:30 a.m. – 4:30 or until done – Audit Board Kick-off, Conduct Risk-Limiting Audit
Tuesday, July 14, 1:30 p.m.* – Canvass Board Remote Meeting (final presentation and signoff of election); contact Elections Office for remote meeting information

Complete risk-limiting audit details and data will be available on the Secretary of State’s Audit Center after the audit is complete.
The Boulder County Elections Division expects to post complete and official election results and related documentation no later than Wednesday, July 22.
* This date is dependent on approval from the Secretary of State’s office, once the statewide Risk Limiting Audit is complete.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-planning-commission-agenda-for-july-15-2020/





July 8, 2020




Boulder County Planning Commission agenda for July 15, 2020

Planning Commission public meeting will be held virtually starting at 1:30 p.m.





Boulder County, Colo. - The next meeting of the Boulder County Planning Commission will be Wed., July 15, 2020, beginning at 1:30 p.m. View the meeting agenda.
DUE TO COVID-19 CONCERNS THIS MEETING WILL BE HELD VIRTUALLY. SIGN-UP TO RECEIVE INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW PARTICIPATE IN THE VIRTUAL MEETING ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION WEBPAGE AT www.boco.org/PC
There will be opportunity to remotely provide public comment on the subject dockets during the respective virtual Public Hearing portions for each item. Written comments for these dockets may be submitted by emailing planner@bouldercounty.org and referencing the docket number in the subject of the email. Call 303-441-3930 or email for more information.
Agenda items include:
Approval of Minutes/Miscellaneous Business
Staff Updates
Items:


Adoption of Planning Commission Resolution 2020-03 (for Docket BCCP-20-0001: Geologic Hazard Mapping-Related Amendments)Action Requested: AdoptionNo public testimony will be taken

Adoption of Planning Commission Resolution 2020-04 (for Docket BCCP-20-0002: BCCP Document Template Conversion-Related Amendments)Action Requested: AdoptionNo public testimony will be taken

Public Hearing: Docket SU-20-0002: Ward Agricultural StructuresRequest: Special Review and Site-Specific Development Plan to allow for the permitting of an existing 3,200-square-foot agricultural structure and the construction of a second 3,200-square-foot agricultural structure on a 39.58-acre parcel with 30,326 square feet of existing structures.Location: 2300 75th Street, approximately .88 miles northeast of the intersection of 75th street and Arapahoe Road, in Section 25, Township 1N, Range 70W.Zoning: Rural Residential (RR)Applicant/Property Owner: Tom WardStaff Planner: Ryan KacirekAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be taken

Public Hearing: Docket LE-20-0002: Longs Peak Water District Pipeline ReplacementRequest: CORRECTED: Location and Extent review to install 10,480 feet of 8-inch raw water pipe to provide alternate access from the Southern Water Supply Project pipeline to the District's water treatment facility, with no extension or expansion of service proposed.ORIGINAL: Location and Extent review to replace approximately 10,480 feet of 8 inch raw water pipe supplying the District's water treatment facility.Location: Commencing at parcel #120519006007, crossing 13203 North 87th Street, 13205 North 87th Street, and the Vermillion Road right-of-way, terminating at 9875 Vermillion Road, Sections 16 - 21, Township 3 North, Range 69 West.Zoning: Agricultural (A) Zoning DistrictApplicant: Longs Peak Water DistrictProperty Owners: Robert Y Kreitman Trust, John R & Virginia E Sipes, ParrishTrust, Longs Peak Water District.Agent: Element Engineering – Nicholaus Marcotte P.E.Staff Planner: Sean GambrelAction Requested: DecisionPublic testimony will be taken

Adjournment
Current and recent Planning Commission agendas, minutes, and archived video recordings are available on the Planning Commission webpage.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-offers-july-virtual-classes-and-education-group-meetings/




 


July 2, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging offers July virtual classes and education group meetings

Afternoon and evening Medicare basics classes available




Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging’s Medicare counseling program is offering live virtual Medicare Basics classes in July. Classes aim to provide unbiased, up-to-date information about Medicare enrollment, benefits, costs, what and how Medicare pays, choices under Medicare plans, how they work, and prescription drug coverage, among other topics.
Interested participants will need internet, a computer, and the appropriate application for the class. There are three classes being offered in the month of July. Please click on any one of the classes to register. Once registered, participants will receive instruction on how to join the class from their computer, tablet, or phone.
Register for Medicare Basics classes on the following dates and times by clicking the below links at:

July 9, 2020 from 2-3:30 p.m.
July 20, 2020 from 10-11:30 a.m.
July 21, 2020 from 6-7:30 p.m.

There is no cost to attend the classes, but registration is required. For more information, or to set up an appointment with a Medicare Counselor, please call 303-441-1546.



Upcoming virtual diabetes ongoing support meeting
Boulder County Area of Aging is also now offering diabetes support group meetings online. The July virtual diabetes support online group meeting will take place on July 20, 2020 from 11 a.m. to noon with a discussion on “the Somogyi effect and the Dawn Phenomenon.” Group meetings are led by a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist who is also a Certified Diabetes Educator.
For people who have diabetes, the Somogyi effect and the dawn phenomenon both cause higher blood sugar levels in the morning. The dawn phenomenon happens naturally, but the Somogyi effect usually happens because of problems with a diabetes management routine. Following this discussion, there will be a group question and answer session for participants.  
Participants are open to Boulder County older adults over the age of 60 who have a diagnosis of diabetes and their caregivers. There is no cost to attend, but registration is required. The upcoming meeting is the continuation of a support group that previously met monthly at the Lafayette Senior Center.
To register, please call the BCAAA Nutrition Line at 303-678-6115 or email infohealthyaging@bouldercounty.org and leave a message with your contact information. A meeting link or call-in number and meeting materials will be sent to all registered participants prior to the meeting.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/face-coverings-required-at-boulder-county-open-space/




 


July 2, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Face Coverings required at Boulder County Open Space

All visitors must have a face covering with them to be used when near others.
Boulder County, Colo. - With the extension of the Boulder County Public Health face covering order, local open space managers and rangers would like to remind residents that all visitors must bring a face covering with them to open space properties and wear them at the trailheads, when passing others, and anytime it is not possible to keep a safe 6-foot distance from anyone not residing in the same household. Face coverings are not necessary when on the trail away from other people. It's completely acceptable to lower them for comfort, but have them ready to cover mouth and nose when encountering other visitors.
"Many residents don't feel safe visiting the trails right now because so few people are wearing masks when they get close to each other. Everyone should feel welcome and safe when recreating on open space, especially our most vulnerable residents. It's such an important resource for mental and physical health in these challenging times," says Eric Lane, director of Boulder County Parks & Open Space. It's critical to remember that not everyone infected by the virus will show symptoms; therefore, it's best to keep a 6 foot distance whenever possible, wear a face covering, and avoid touching your face. "Having a mask with you whenever you leave the house is as important as remembering your keys or other essential items, whether you're going to the grocery store or visiting an open space property," adds Lane.
Maintenance staff, trailhead ambassadors, and park rangers are working hard to maintain a pleasant and safe environment for visitors. Restrooms are cleaned and trashcans are emptied daily, parking lots and trailhead amenities are monitored, and first responders are on call to assist when necessary. "Park rangers, deputies, and first responders do not hesitate to assist visitors with their needs – answering questions, providing first aid, or assisting with a rescue. Please help me keep my staff and other first responders healthy and available to assist you during your visit by wearing a face covering at the trailheads and when interacting with staff. Wearing face coverings in parks and open spaces is not about anyone’s ideology or beliefs, rather it is about ensuring that the trails remain open and safe for everyone in our community,” says Bevin Carithers, chief ranger for Boulder County Parks & Open Space. Visitors who do not have a face covering with them may be asked to leave the property.
For more guidance on the face covering order, please visit the COVID-19 Boulder County Face Covering Order webpage.
 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/stay-healthy-while-enjoying-lakes-and-creeks/





June 30, 2020




Stay Healthy While Enjoying Lakes and Creeks

Boulder County, CO - Boulder County’s beautiful lakes, rivers, and creeks are enticing places to cool off and spend the day, but they are also home to many organisms, bacteria, and other germs that can make people sick. Water contaminated with germs, such as Cryptosporidium, Giardia, Shigella, norovirus, and E. coli O157:H7, can make individuals sick when it is ingested or gets into an open cut or sore.
Almost none of the natural waterbodies in Boulder County are designated as swim beaches. While many lakes or streams allow water craft, such as kayaks and paddleboards, it is not an indication that the water is safe for swimming. At some locations, swimming may even be prohibited.
“Boulder Reservoir and Union Reservoir are the only two water bodies in the county that are regulated as swim beaches,” explained Erin Dodge, Boulder County Public Health Water Quality program coordinator. “This means that only these reservoirs are monitored for water quality to help protect swimmers.” Currently both reservoirs are closed for swimming but open for other activities. You can check the status of Boulder Reservoir and Union Reservoir online.
Boulder County Public Health recommends the following tips for safe water recreation:

Read all signs posted near a waterbody to understand what activities are allowed and if any warnings are currently in place.
Don’t have contact with the water if:

It has rained enough in the last 48 hours to fill gutters. This is especially important for waterbodies within cities that collect stormwater from street storm drains. The water may also include human and animal feces that can drain into the swim area.
The water looks cloudier than usual, is discolored, or smells bad. Discolored or smelly water could mean there is a harmful algal bloom (HAB) in the water that can make humans and animals sick.
There are pipes draining into or around the water.
You are sick, especially with diarrhea or symptoms of COVID-19.
You have an open cut or wound, especially from a surgery or piercing.




Only swim at designated swim beaches.
Don’t swallow the water while swimming.
Keep sand away from your mouth and children’s mouths; it can also contain germs.
Don’t poop in the water.
Get out of the water every hour to use the bathroom, take kids to the bathroom, or to check diapers. Make sure to change diapers away from water and sand.
Wash your hands for 20 seconds before eating any food, especially if you’ve been playing in or touching sand. If soap and water aren’t available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer containing at least 60% alcohol. Wipe off all sand and dirt before using hand sanitizer because it’s less effective when hands are visibly dirty or greasy.
Always shower after being in contact with waterbodies.

For more information, visit www.cdc.gov/healthywater/swimming/oceans-lakes-rivers/visiting-oceans-lakes-rivers.html, www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdphe/swim-beach-monitoring, or www.cdc.gov/healthywater/swimming/swimmers/rwi.html
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/new-2020-eldorado-canyon-state-park-weekend-shuttle-begins-july-3/




 


June 30, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



New 2020 Eldorado Canyon State Park weekend shuttle begins July 3

Free shuttles run every 15 minutes





Boulder County, Colo. - Beginning on Friday, July 3, Boulder County and Colorado Parks & Wildlife will offer a new shuttle bus service on weekends and holidays this summer and fall to carry passengers from Boulder to Eldorado Canyon State Park, which is a popular hiking, sightseeing, and climbing destination south of Boulder. The shuttle will help address increased parking and traffic congestion-related impacts in Eldorado Springs and within the state park.
Shuttle Service
The shuttle service will begin Friday, July 3, 2020, and will run Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays until Monday, Sept. 7. Holidays with shuttle service include Friday, July 3 and Monday, Sept. 7. The shuttle will run approximately every 15 minutes from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. each day of service.
The shuttle route includes the following stops:

Regent Drive & Broadway
Broadway & 27th Way
Broadway & Dartmouth Avenue
Broadway & Table Mesa Drive
CO 93 & CO 170
Eldorado Canyon State Park entrance station
Eldorado Canyon State Park Visitor Center

View or download a map of the route and stops:


State Parks Pass
As a special promotion for the first couple weekends of the shuttle service, Boulder County is covering the the Eldorado Canyon State Park entry fee for shuttle passengers who do not have an annual pass. After Colorado Parks & Wildlife makes individual day passes available for purchase online, all shuttle passengers will be required to present a valid state parks pass to ride the shuttle into the state park.
Accessible hiking

All shuttles and shuttle stops are ADA accessible.
The Eldo Shuttle provides access to the Fowler Trail, a wheelchair accessible trail.

Outdoor Gear and Pets

Crashpads and other climbing gear are welcome.
Leashed, well-behaved dogs are welcome.
Each shuttle has a bike rack that can hold two bikes.

COVID-19 Procedures
To reduce the spread of COVID-19, the following policies have been implemented:

If you have recently experienced any symptoms of COVID-19, including fever, cough, or sore throat, please do not ride the shuttle.
All passengers ages 12 & older are required to wear a mask or face covering. Please bring your own mask.
To promote social distancing, shuttle capacity is limited to nine passengers or three households, whichever is less.
On the shuttle, please sit in the sections labeled and leave at least one row of seats between groups.
Shuttles are disinfected once per day, and high touch surfaces are wiped down after each trip.

Take the Bus to the Shuttle
Rather than driving directly to the state park or one of the shuttle parking lots, visitors are encouraged to take the RTD SKIP, DASH, Flatiron Flyer or any other RTD bus route that stops along Broadway to connect to the Eldo Shuttle.
Parking is extremely limited inside Eldorado Canyon State Park, and there is no public parking nearby outside of the park. When parking inside the state park is full, you will be not be allowed in. Don’t chance it-park at one of the shuttle lots and ride the shuttle instead! Illegal parking could result in fines and/or towed vehicles.
For more information, visit www.EldoShuttle.com or contact Alex Hyde-Wright at ahyde-wright@bouldercounty.org or 303-441-4910.






Climbing is a popular activity at Eldorado Canyon State Park south of Boulder.










Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/dc-19-0005-short-term-dwelling-rental-and-bed-breakfast-code-update/





June 30, 2020




DC-19-0005: Short-term Dwelling Rental and Bed & Breakfast code update

Attend a Virtual Coffee With a Planner or Open House in July





Boulder County, CO - The Boulder County Community Planning & Permitting Department is continuing work on Land Use Code updates to Short-term Dwelling Rental and Bed & Breakfast regulations in docket DC-19-0005. Opportunities for public input and virtual meetings are scheduled for July.
Informational Survey Results
Boulder County sent out an informational survey polling the public for thoughts on regulating short-term dwelling rentals in the fall of 2019. This survey was open from Oct. 28, 2019 through Dec. 2, 2019, and there were 1,567 total respondents. Some notable results include:

More than 85% of respondents felt as though there should be short-term dwelling rentals in Boulder County with varying levels of oversight.
More than 74% of respondents thought there should be a local management requirement.
A majority of respondents felt as though there should be some form of owner-occupancy requirement.
76% of respondents did not think a minimum-stay was appropriate.

View the full results for this informational survey.

Preliminary Outline for Proposed Draft Regulations
Based on these survey results and discussions with the public, and a review of other jurisdictions’ regulations, staff’s preliminary outline for the draft regulations is as follows:

Short-term dwelling rentals will be required to have a Boulder County license and follow specific license regulations, very similar to Boulder County’s Marijuana Licensing Program. County governments in Colorado were recently granted licensing authority through HB-20-1093.
There will be two separate categories of uses for Short-term Dwelling Rentals:


An Accessory Residential Use: This use will be on properties where there is a Principal Use as a single-family dwelling. There will likely be some residency or owner-occupancy requirements for this use. This use might be appropriate for an administrative review.

A Lodging Use: This use will be for houses that are used primarily for short-term rentals and not primarily used as a single-family house. This use will likely require a more intensive review, including a public hearing.



Upcoming Public Comment and Input Opportunities in July
County staff and decision makers are seeking input or questions on the preliminary outline for regulations along with any criteria for review or conditions of approval for staff to consider. 
Virtual Coffee With a Planner - Meeting Times Available Between July 13-24
Planners will host small group sessions that are 30 minutes long for members of the public to join an online meeting or call in and talk to a planner about this code update. If you would like to sign-up for a Virtual Coffee With a Planner session, please fill out this short form to schedule a meeting time.
Virtual Open House - Wednesday, July 30 at 6 p.m.
A Virtual Open House will be held on Wednesday, July 30 at 6 p.m. to review the latest public input to date. Register online to participate at this online session and provide thoughts to staff before they begin drafting the regulations.
The timeline for this update is to provide proposed draft regulations to the Boulder County Planning Commission in the fall. Written comments may be submitted online.
For more information, contact Jasmine Rodenburg at jrodenburg@bouldercounty.org or 303-441-1735, or visit the project webpage.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/2020-hessie-trailhead-weekend-shuttle-begins-june-27-its-free/




 


June 23, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



2020 Hessie Trailhead weekend shuttle begins June 27 – It’s FREE!

New for 2020, Nederland High School is the pick-up/drop-off location; shuttles run every 15 minutes
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County will again offer a free shuttle service on weekends and holidays this summer and fall to carry passengers from Nederland High School (597 County Road 130) to the Hessie Trailhead, a popular entry point for accessing the Indian Peaks Wilderness Area off of Fourth of July Road.
The Hessie Trailhead shuttle program began in the summer of 2012 to address the issue of increased parking and traffic congestion on the way to the trailhead. The first eight years of the program have been successful and shuttle ridership has increased almost every year. In 2019, more than one-third of weekend and holiday visitors used the shuttle to access the Hessie Trailhead.
The shuttle schedule has been extended once again to include peak leaf viewing weekends in the fall.
Shuttle Service
The shuttle service will begin Saturday, June 27, 2020 and will run from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturdays, and from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Sundays. Exceptions to that schedule include:

Friday, July 3 – Shuttle will run from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Sunday, Sept 6 – Shuttle will run from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Monday, Sept 7 – Shuttle will run from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m.

After Labor Day, the Saturday schedule will change to 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. to account for shorter periods of daylight. The last day of shuttle service will be Sunday, Oct 11, 2020.

COVID-19 Procedures
To reduce the spread of COVID-19, these policies have been implemented for 2020:

If you have recently experienced any symptoms of COVID-19, including fever, cough, or sore throat, please do not ride the shuttle.
All passengers ages 12 and older are required to wear a mask or face covering. Please bring your own mask.
To promote social distancing, shuttle capacity is limited to six passengers or two households, whichever is less.
On the shuttle, please sit in the sections labeled and leave at least one row of seats between groups.
Shuttles are disinfected once per day, and high touch surfaces are wiped down after each trip.

Details

Park and catch the free shuttle at Nederland High School at 597 County Road 130 (just west of the Peak to Peak Highway).
Shuttles depart approximately every 15 minutes.
Leashed dogs are welcome onboard the shuttle.
Parking at the Nederland High School lot is for day use only; overnight users should make other arrangements.
Bikes are not allowed on the shuttle due to a lack of bike racks.


Take the Bus to the Shuttle!
Rather than driving directly to the trailhead or Nederland High School, visitors are encouraged to take the RTD ‘NB1’ bus to Nederland from downtown Boulder.
Parking near the trailhead and on nearby roads such as 4th of July Road is extremely limited, and Boulder County Parks & Open Space rangers are responsible for enforcing strict parking regulations in the area. Illegal parking will result in monetary penalties and/or towed vehicles.
For more information, visit www.HessieTrailhead.com, or contact Alex Hyde-Wright at ahyde-wright@bouldercounty.org 303-441-4910.











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-commissioners-to-consider-oil-and-gas-moratorium-extension-at-virtual-public-hearing-on-july-14/




 


June 23, 2020




Boulder County Commissioners to Consider Oil and Gas Moratorium Extension at Virtual Public Hearing on July 14

Hearing will be held virtually and written public comment accepted
 
Boulder County, Colo. - The Board of Boulder County Commissioners (BOCC) will hold a virtual public hearing on Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 2:30 p.m. to consider any necessary changes to the temporary moratorium on oil and gas development applications and seismic testing in unincorporated Boulder County, which is currently set to expire July 31. The moratorium is in effect while staff updates the existing oil and gas regulations in response to the passage of Senate Bill 19-181. However, the previous schedule for public review of the regulations was vacated due to COVID-19.
At the July 14 BOCC public hearing, which will be held virtually (see details below), county staff will propose a revised schedule for public review of the draft regulations that were released March 6 and are available for review on the county oil and gas website. Written public testimony only will be taken for the July 14 hearing on the moratorium.
Based on the information presented by staff and public testimony, the BOCC will determine whether to extend, terminate, or further amend the temporary moratorium.

What: Board of Boulder County Commissioners’ Public Hearing on the merits of the temporary moratorium on oil and gas development applications and seismic testing in unincorporated Boulder County and to determine whether the moratorium should be extended, terminated, or further amended.When: Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 2:30 p.m.Webstream: www.boco.org/BOCC-OG-July-14-20

Written comments may be submitted to oilgascomment@bouldercounty.org or mailed to the Boulder County Commissioners’ Office, P.O. Box 471, Boulder, CO 80306. Comments must be received by 8 a.m. on Monday, July 13 in order to be considered by the Board of County Commissioners prior to the July 14 public hearing.
Background
On April 11, 2017, the Board of County Commissioners adopted a resolution enacting the strongest set of regulations on oil and gas development in the State of Colorado. Since that date, no applications have been filed with the Boulder County Land Use Department to seek a permit for oil and gas development. Recently, however, an oil and gas operator indicated an interest in applying for a drilling permit with Boulder County. On June 4, 2019, the commissioners authorized Boulder County staff to work on Docket DC-19-0002 Amendments to Article 12 of the Land Use Code which addresses oil and gas development in unincorporated Boulder County. The update to the county’s oil and gas regulations follows the passage of SB19-181 which prioritizes the local protection of public safety, health, welfare, and the environment in the regulation of the oil and gas industry and grants additional authority to local governments to regulate oil and gas development.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-2020-census-team-collaborates-with-foothills-zonta-club/




 


June 22, 2020




Boulder County 2020 census team collaborates with Foothills Zonta Club

Youth make a difference through advocacy and civic engagement in 2020 census
Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County 2020 census team and Foothills Zonta Club has partnered to conduct an upcoming 2020 census campaign to hang door hangers at Boulder Meadow on Wednesday, June 24 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Foothills Zonta Club recognizes the importance of having everyone counted and will dedicate time and efforts in their neighborhood. There will be a dozen Zonta Club members making sure that 600+ homes in their community respond to the census.
     What: 2020 Census Door Hanging Campaign by Foothills Zonta Club     When: Wednesday, June 24     Time: 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
“The Boulder High Pantherz Club and the Flatirons Golden Z Club are supporting and advocating for highs school students to graduate and to get involved in civic duties in their communities, like volunteering in creating 2020 Census awareness in their community and neighborhoods,” said Pam Malzbender, Zonta Club program coordinator at Boulder High School. The Pantherz (current high school student members) and Golden Z club (former Pantherz graduated student members) are part of the Foothillz Zonta Club that is mobilizing students to get involved in the 2020 census.
Foothills Zonta Club supports under-resourced women and girls who face obstacles to education. Through scholarships, advocacy, mentoring and other hands-on service, the club supports women's education and empowerment. Zonta Club promotes advocacy and civic engagement among its members and are volunteering to assist with Boulder County’s 2020 Census campaign titled “Everyone Counts in Boulder County.”
Boulder County’s 2020 census team is made of up dedicated professionals within Boulder County Community Services’ Community Action Programs (CAP), community foundations, nonprofit partners, and other partner organizations to conduct count efforts across Boulder County. Boulder County’s 2020 census team aims to count every resident in Boulder County by August 2020. Boulder County Community Action Programs focuses on community organizing and advocacy.
To complete the census online, visit 2020census.gov. The deadline to respond has been extended to Aug. 14, 2020. Visit boco.org/census to learn more about the Boulder County 2020 Census. For more information, please contact Carmen Faucette, Boulder County 2020 Census Outreach Coordinator at cfaucette@bouldercounty.org.  











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/primary-election-deadlines-in-person-voting-and-ballot-to-go-options/




 


June 20, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Primary Election Deadlines, In-person Voting, and Ballot-to-Go Options

Plus COVID-19 in-person voting precautions





Boulder County, Colo. – Monday, June 22 is the last recommended day for voters to use the mail to send back their ballots. Otherwise, Boulder County Elections recommends dropping off ballots at one of over a dozen mail ballot drop boxes throughout the county. Additionally, Monday, June 22 is the deadline to either register for the first time and be mailed a ballot or for voters to change their address and/or request a replacement ballot be mailed to them. The website to register or update registration is www.GoVoteColorado.gov. Colorado does not have a registration deadline, so after Monday, voters can still go register and vote in-person at a Vote Center.
To help reduce the risk of COVID-19, Boulder County Elections is also asking voters to vote at home using their mail ballot whenever possible and return their ballot by mail (at least one week before the election) or at any 24-hour drop box.
Starting Monday, June 22, three Vote Centers will be available for Boulder County voters who need to or prefer to vote in-person. We will also be offering a “ballot to-go” option (see below). At a Boulder County Vote Center, eligible voters can:

Drop off a ballot
Cast a ballot in-person
Request a replacement ballot
Register to vote or update voter registration information
Vote using equipment and facilities for persons with disabilities

Please remember to bring a valid ID. For ID list, see: www.boco.org/VotingID
Vote Center Locations & Hours

Open from Monday, June 22, through Election Day – Tuesday, June 30 (except Sunday, June 29). Hours vary depending on the day.
Three locations: in Boulder, Lafayette, and Longmont. Please visit boco.org/Vote for addresses and hours.
The Vote Center at the University of Colorado’s UMC will be closed for this election due to campus building closures.

Ballot-to-Go option
To help reduce the risk of COVID-19, our Vote Centers will also be offering a new “Ballot-to-Go” option for voters who miss Monday’s mail deadline and would prefer their ballot to be delivered to their car. Voters can call our hotline at 720-440-7886 to order their ballot, then contact us when they arrive to have an election judge deliver their ballot to their car. For new registrants or voters with address changes, we request the voter make the change online at www.GoVoteColorado.gov first and then wait at least 1 full business day before attempting to request a ballot-to-go. If they need a ballot sooner, they will need to come inside a Vote Center. Tuesday, June 30 is the last day to return ballots (by 7 p.m.) or vote in-person.
COVID-19 Safety Precautions. To help keep our voters, election judges, and staff as safe as possible during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have instituted many new safety protocols and practices, including:

6-foot distancing which will be required between all voters, election judges, and staff.
Plexiglass barriers have been installed where the 6-foot distancing requirement cannot always be met, including Vote Center check-ins stations.
Face coverings are required for all elections staff and judges and strongly encouraged for voters visiting a Vote Center (masks will be provided, as needed).

Please visit https://boco.org/Vote for more details about the Ballot-to-Go option, Vote Center locations and hours, and to find a 24-hour mail ballot drop-off box close to you. You can also check out our website – www.BoulderCountyVotes.org – to find more information about voter registration and the June Primary including ballot content.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/spike-in-new-covid-19-cases-in-boulder/





June 17, 2020




Spike in New COVID-19 Cases in Boulder

Spike in New COVID-19 Cases in Boulder
Residents advised to be diligent about taking precautions to stop further spread.
Boulder County, CO – Since last Thursday, June 11, and as of 8 a.m. today, 108 Boulder County residents have tested positive for COVID-19. The majority of new cases are among college-age people living in the Hill neighborhood, although this does not represent all of the new cases. Some of the people newly infected report recent out-of-state travel as well as attending large gatherings in Boulder.
“It’s important to remember that this virus is still active in our community and we all need to take personal responsibility to follow the orders and guidance. Our personal actions can have social, economic, and health consequences for the entire community,” said Jeff Zayach Boulder County Public Health executive director.
These new cases represent a reversal in the trend of new cases in Boulder County. Prior to last week, Boulder County had the second lowest new case rate in the Metro Denver Area. As of today, the county has the third highest increase in new cases just after Denver and Adams counties.
“Regardless of where you live, this increase in cases can affect you,” said Carol Helwig, Boulder County Public Health Communicable Disease Control program manager. “If there was ever a time to choose to stay home, now is the time. If you have to go out, continue to be very diligent about social distancing, wearing a face covering, and washing your hands.”
Symptoms of COVID-19 may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus and include fever or chills; cough; shortness of breath or difficulty breathing; fatigue; muscle or body aches; headache; new loss of taste or smell; sore throat; congestion or runny nose; nausea or vomiting, and/or diarrhea.
Current data suggest person-to-person transmission most commonly happens during close exposure (e.g. within six feet) to a person infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, primarily via respiratory droplets produced when the infected person speaks, coughs, or sneezes. Droplets can land in the mouth, nose, or eyes or possibly be inhaled into the lungs of those within close proximity. Transmission may also happen by touching contaminated surfaces and then touching the eyes, nose, or mouth.
Local COVID-19 updates are shared by press release, as well as on the Boulder County Public Health Facebook and Twitter social media pages and Boulder County Public Health COVID-19 website at www.boco.org/covid-19.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/board-of-county-commissioners-applaud-upholding-of-lgbtq-protections/




 


June 15, 2020




Board of County Commissioners Applaud Upholding of LGBTQ+ Protections

We need to be vigilant in protecting the rights of our residents now, more than ever










Boulder County, Colo. -- Today we are grateful for the long overdue decision from the United States Supreme Court to affirm that the 1964 Civil Rights Act does indeed protect the LGBTQ+ community. Our wish for society, and for Boulder County in particular, is to nurture a community where everyone is welcomed, valued, and protected equally. This being Pride Month and given that some of our own residents have experienced first-hand discrimination, marginalization, or even hate, it is clear to us that we must speak out again in support of inclusion, diversity, and a welcoming community.
Certainly, we need to be vigilant in protecting the rights of our residents now, more than ever. Just last week, the Trump Administration removed nondiscrimination protections for the LGBTQ+ community in the health care and health insurance sectors. This split between the ideals and decisions of the Trump Administration versus those of the Supreme Court illustrate a divided country and a divided federal government.
As leaders of Boulder County government, overseeing nearly 2,500 employees, we strive to “walk the talk” and foster a culture of inclusiveness and equity. Our services and resources at Boulder County will continue to be available for any community member who needs them, and no one will be turned away based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. We are continually seeking ways to improve our policies to make our staff members know they are valued, supported, and respected for who they are as well. In 2016 we added the option to cover hormonal therapy, clinical examination, and psychotherapy related to gender dysphoria to our employee health care plans.
It is our intention to make it known that Boulder County government is eager to welcome all individuals who wish to make our community their home. We will also continue to scrutinize our own policies and programs to continuously improve how we serve our diverse communities. We believe that a prosperous and successful community requires all residents to feel safe, supported, valued, and welcome.





The historic courthouse on Pearl Street will be lit with rainbow lights from June 16-30. It was previously lit in orange in early June in recognition of gun violence awareness.







Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/participant-of-june-4-protest-in-boulder-tests-positive-for-covid-19/





June 15, 2020




Participant of June 4 Protest in Boulder Tests Positive for COVID-19

Participant of June 4 Protest in Boulder Tests Positive for COVID-19
Participants who attended the event should monitor for symptoms of COVID-19.
Boulder County, CO – A person who recently tested positive for COVID-19 has reported that they attended a Black Lives Matter protest on the Hill near CU on June 4. They had very mild symptoms of no taste/no smell at the time of the protest. They wore a mask at the protest.
Anyone who attended the event should monitor for symptoms, immediately self-isolate if they develop symptoms, and get tested. Residents can contact their own health care provider to arrange testing, or contact an independent testing site. Free testing is also available at the City of Denver drive-up testing site at the Pepsi Center.
People who were exposed should seek testing as soon as symptoms develop. Anyone who may have been exposed but does not yet have symptoms should consider testing approximately 7 days after exposure, which may detect pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic infections.
“We’re seeing increased transmission in our county,” said Carol Helwig, Boulder County Public Health Communicable Disease Control program manager. “Anyone who can stay home should do so to stop additional spread and illness from the virus, especially to our vulnerable residents for which it can be deadly.”
Symptoms of COVID-19 may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus and include fever or chills; cough; shortness of breath or difficulty breathing; fatigue; muscle or body aches; headache; new loss of taste or smell; sore throat; congestion or runny nose; nausea or vomiting, and/or diarrhea.
Current data suggest person-to-person transmission most commonly happens during close exposure (e.g. within six feet) to a person infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, primarily via respiratory droplets produced when the infected person speaks, coughs, or sneezes. Droplets can land in the mouth, nose, or eyes or possibly be inhaled into the lungs of those within close proximity. Transmission may also happen by touching contaminated surfaces and then touching the eyes, nose, or mouth.
Local COVID-19 updates are shared by press release, as well as on the Boulder County Public Health Facebook and Twitter social media pages and Boulder County Public Health COVID-19 website at www.boco.org/covid-19.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-public-health-seeking-residents-potentially-exposed-to-covid-19-at-recent-events/





June 12, 2020




Boulder County Public Health seeking residents potentially exposed to COVID-19 at recent events

Boulder County Public Health seeking residents potentially exposed to COVID-19 at recent events
Multiple residents who tested positive for the virus report attending large parties and a local protest march. 
Boulder County, CO – Seventeen Boulder residents have been newly diagnosed with COVID-19 in the past three days. Many of the residents reported attending parties in the Hill neighborhood between May 25 and June 4 and a protest march in Boulder on June 5. Some of those recently diagnosed with the virus reported ill household members and recent travel.
Anyone who may have attended a party in the Hill neighborhood or the protest march in Boulder on these dates or believes they may have been within six feet for 10 minutes or more with someone who has COVID-19, is urged to immediately quarantine for 14 days since the last exposure, monitor for symptoms, and get tested for COVID-19.
CU Boulder students who may have been exposed can be tested by the Boulder Medical Services by calling 303-492-5101. Residents can also contact their own health care provider to arrange testing, or contact an independent testing site. Free testing is also available at the City of Denver drive-up testing site at the Pepsi Center.
“It’s so important that anyone who was at these events take these steps to stop the spread to others,” said Carol Helwig, Boulder County Public Health Communicable Disease Control program manager. “This is exactly how the virus quickly gets out of control. Anyone who had a known exposure at one of these events should quarantine for 14 days following the exposure to avoid spreading illness to others in our community.”
People who were exposed should seek testing as soon as symptoms develop. Anyone who may have been exposed but does not yet have symptoms should consider testing approximately 7 days after exposure, which may detect pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic infections.
House parties with more than 10 people who do not share a household are prohibited by the statewide Public Health Order 20-28, also known as “Safer at Home in the Vast, Great Outdoors.” Non-household members are required to maintain six feet distance from each other at all times.
Boulder County Public Health is partnering with CU Boulder and the City of Boulder to increase education and outreach. In addition, Boulder County Public Health and the city will be working to increase monitoring and enforcement in the Hill area, including pursuing civil action against those who host an unauthorized gathering. Anyone who witnesses a large gathering of non-household members is encouraged to contact City of Boulder dispatch while the event is occurring by calling 303-441-3333.
“This behavior demonstrates disregard for the larger community that has worked so hard to control this virus,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health executive director. “It’s not just that this sort of gathering is a violation, but that it impacts everyone else – from the deadly risk of transmission to our older residents and people with health conditions, to the ability to keep businesses open.”
Each of the people who tested positive are in their late teens and twenties. In Boulder County, the greatest number of cases have continued to be among the 20-29 age group. While illness among people of this age is generally mild, many who have become ill from COVID-19 describe a painful and long illness and recovery.
“Young people likely understand the risks to themselves, and perhaps accept the risks. But, even if you don’t know an older person or anyone with a serious health condition, one could unknowingly put neighbors, co-workers, front-line workers, and other vulnerable people in our community in danger,” said Helwig.
Current data suggest person-to-person transmission most commonly happens during close exposure (e.g. within six feet) to a person infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, primarily via respiratory droplets produced when the infected person speaks, coughs, or sneezes. Droplets can land in the mouth, nose, or eyes or possibly be inhaled into the lungs of those within close proximity. Transmission may also happen by touching contaminated surfaces and then touching the eyes, nose, or mouth.
Local COVID-19 updates are shared by press release, as well as on the Boulder County Public Health Facebook and Twitter social media pages and Boulder County Public Health COVID-19 website at www.boco.org/covid-19.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/small-business-grants-announced-for-businesses-in-unincorporated-boulder-county/




 


June 11, 2020




Small Business Grants Announced for Businesses in Unincorporated Boulder County

Boulder County received requests for financial support totaling six times the amount of funding available





Boulder County, Colo. -- The Boulder County Board of County Commissioners has announced grant awards to 34 small business in unincorporated Boulder County that have been impacted by coronavirus and the related public health orders in place to protect our community’s health and save lives.
The commissioners recognize the critical role played by small businesses throughout Boulder County in the community’s overall economic health and well-being. Local small businesses make sizable contributions to their communities in myriad ways, including:

Providing jobs to generate and maintain local employment opportunities;
Promoting a unique community identity, character, and charm; and
Building a sense of community connectedness, social health, and well-being through business practices built around interpersonal relationships.

Boulder County received requests for financial support totaling six times the amount of funding available, leading to a competitive and objective selection process. The awarded small businesses are businesses with 50 employees or less and are located throughout unincorporated Boulder County, Jamestown, and Ward including - Niwot, Allenspark, and other unincorporated areas surrounding cities and towns within the county. The businesses represent various sectors from service, retail, food retail, and agriculture - and all are in good standing with the state of Colorado and Boulder County.
Awarded funding will be utilized to cover pandemic-related costs associated with:

Rent/mortgage/capital expenses to make improvements related to social distancing;
Rent/utilities required to resume or continue business activity;
Personal protective equipment, cleaning, and sanitation supplies;
Payroll costs, but only if a business was unsuccessful in securing funding from the Paycheck Protection Program or Economic Injury Disaster Loans;  
Urgently needed equipment repair/replacement required to resume or continue business activity;
Supplies that support business activity adjustments during the COVID-19 response period;
Marketing/PR/communications needs to address business activity adjustments during the COVID-19 response period;
Telcom/internet connectivity to facilitate business activity during the COVID-19 response period; or
Business licenses, permits, or other fees required to resume or continue business activity.

Applications for grant funding were evaluated utilizing criteria that included: severity of impact of COVID-19 on the business, how the business is supporting employees during the pandemic, local ownership, and the sustainability plan for moving forward during these challenging times. A diverse group of leaders from the Boulder County community and Boulder County staff with expertise in business and financial review evaluated applications and selected awardees.
“We are pleased to be able to respond to small business needs along with individual and family needs during the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Commissioner Matt Jones. “Small businesses are a very important component of our economic vitality providing employment, unique services and goods, and character to our communities.”
For more small business information and support, including additional opportunities for financial support, business owners should check out the Boulder Small Business Development Center including weekly webinars and direct one-on-one advising services. More information is available at https://bouldersbdc.com/, by email at admin@bouldersbdc.com, or by calling 303-442-1475.
For any questions regarding current rules or regulations to protect health and life while re-opening or operating a business, please contact Boulder County Public Health or call the county Call Center - open Monday-Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. - at 720-776-0822.
More information about the grant funded businesses can be found at www.boco.org/EmergencyReliefGrant. For questions about the program, contact economicrecovery@bouldercounty.org.












Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/revised-boulder-county-planning-commission-agenda-for-june-17-2020/





June 10, 2020




Revised Boulder County Planning Commission agenda for June 17, 2020

Planning Commission public meeting will be held virtually starting at 1:30 p.m.





Boulder County, Colo. - The next meeting of the Boulder County Planning Commission will be Wed., June 17, 2020, beginning at 1:30 p.m. View the REVISED meeting agenda (Docket SU-20-0002 Ward Agricultural Structures has been rescheduled to the July 15, 2020 Planning Commission meeting).
DUE TO COVID-19 CONCERNS THIS MEETING WILL BE HELD VIRTUALLY. SIGN-UP TO RECEIVE INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW PARTICIPATE IN THE VIRTUAL MEETING ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION WEBPAGE: www.boco.org/PC
There will be opportunity to remotely provide public comment on the subject dockets during the respective virtual Public Hearing portions for each item. Written comments for these dockets may be submitted by emailing planner@bouldercounty.org and referencing the docket number in the subject of the email. Call 303-441-3930 or email for more information.
Agenda items include:
Approval of Minutes/Miscellaneous Business
Nomination of Officers
Staff Updates
Items:


Public Hearing: Docket SU-18-0017 Phelps-Tointon Inc.Request: REVISED: Special Review for an approximately 28,000 square- foot indoor riding arena and barn.ORIGINAL: Special Review for an approximately 37,700 square-foot indoor riding arena.Location: 6871 N. 55th Street, the parcel located on the Southwest corner of the intersection of N. 55th and Niwot Rd., Section 33, Township 2N, Range 70W.Zoning: Agricultural (A)Applicant/Property Owner: Phelps-Tointon Inc.Agent: Bill TointonAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be taken.Staff Planner: Summer Frederick


Public Hearing: Docket SU-20-0002 Ward Agricultural StructuresItem rescheduled to July 15, 2020 Planning Commission meeting.


Public Hearing: Docket SU-19-0014 Niwot Business Association Parking LotRequest: Special Use review to allow for the construction of a 50-space multimodal parking facility (to be developed in phases) on 2.06- acre parcel #131725400009.Location: Parcel #131725400009, on the west side of Murray Street, at the intersection of 3rd Avenue and Murray Street in Niwot, in Section 25, Township 2N, Range 70W.Zoning: Rural Residential (RR)Property Owner: County of BoulderApplicant: Niwot Business AssociationAgent: Bruce WarrenAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be takenStaff Planner: Molly Marcucilli


Docket BVCP-20-0001 Boulder Valley Comprehensive Plan (BVCP) Mid-Term UpdateThis is an update regarding the community- and staff-initiated amendments to the BVCP as part of the mid-term update. Staff will review the process including providing a recap of the May 28, 2020 Planning Board meeting and take feedback from Planning Commission to consider as the update proceeds.Action Requested: None, Information item onlyPublic testimony will be takenStaff Planners: Abby Shannon, Alberto De Los Rios


Adjournment.
Staff reports are posted to the docket webpages linked above.
Current and recent Planning Commission agendas, minutes, and archived video recordings are available on the Planning Commission webpage.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/be-cautious-of-algal-blooms-in-lakes-and-ponds-this-summer/




 


June 10, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Be cautious of algal blooms in lakes and ponds this summer

Keep people and pets out of slow-moving waterbodies where algae may be present
Boulder County, Colo. - With summer approaching and temperatures rising, Boulder County and the City of Boulder remind community members to exercise caution around lakes and ponds where algae blooms may be present. If community members see algae in lakes and ponds, they should take extra precautions to avoid contact with the water because some algal blooms can be harmful to people and pets.
Some algal blooms can contain cyanobacteria, often referred to as blue-green algae. While the vast majority of algae often seen in ponds and lakes during summer months are not toxic, cyanobacteria can produce toxins, which can be harmful to dogs and humans at elevated levels. Warmer temperatures, stagnant water, and nitrogen and phosphorus (nutrient) loading from fertilized lawns and other sources can facilitate algae and cyanobacteria growth.
According to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, cyanobacteria blooms may look like thick pea soup or spilled bluish-green paint on the water's surface and can also create a thick mat of foam along the shoreline. In general, the long, stringy, bright green strands that appear either slimy or cottony, or are mustard yellow in color are not the harmful type of algae.
At lakes and ponds where dogs are allowed to enter the water, practice caution if algae are present. Anglers should also exercise caution and follow state recommendations to clean any caught fish thoroughly and to discard guts appropriately.
The City of Boulder and Boulder County do not test for cyanobacteria at lakes and ponds because the production of cyanotoxins can be highly variable, with harmful toxins detectable at one time but not detectable hours later.
Visitors and residents should exercise caution and keep children and pets out of the water in any areas where algae are observed. When in doubt, just stay out. 

Blue-green algae






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/new-report-on-energy-use-in-boulder-county-cannabis-cultivation-facilities/




 


June 9, 2020

Contact: 720-564-2220
resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org



New report on energy use in Boulder County cannabis cultivation facilities

Reducing the environmental impact of the cannabis industry is the goal 





Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County’s Cannabis Energy Impact Offset Fund (EIOF) sponsored an energy assessment of cannabis cultivation facilities in unincorporated Boulder County between July 2019 and February 2020. The report, compiled by Energy & Resources Solutions (ERS), assessed energy usage, utility consumption data, and productivity.  

With this data, the report was able to offer recommendations to increase cost savings, lower carbon footprints, and maximize production yields in these cannabis cultivation facilities. Notably, the report also developed energy intensity and productivity metrics for future county benchmarking and industry comparison requirements. 


Boulder County requires commercial cannabis cultivators to either offset their electricity use with local renewable energy or pay a surcharge for non-renewable energy usage. The fees from this surcharge are placed into the Boulder County Energy Impact Offset Fund which supports the implementation of sustainable energy practices and funds carbon pollution reducing projects. 



“We are proud to collaborate with local cannabis cultivators to reduce environmental impacts,” said Susie Strife, Director of Boulder County’s Office of Sustainability, Climate Action & Resilience. “Through the Energy Impact Offset Fund we are able to fund meaningful studies, like this ERS report, to develop best practices that help both the planet and local business.” 


Here are five key findings of the report: 




While indoor facilities are more electrically intense due to 100% reliance on artificial lighting, greenhouses are more fuel intense due to poor envelope performance inherent with greenhouses.  


The greenhouses in the study use approximately 30% less combined electrical and fuel energy per square foot of flowering canopy than the indoor facilities.  


Greenhouse productivity is approximately 15% better than the indoor facilities in terms of grams of dry usable product per MMBtu of site energy, which includes all fuels. 








When considering grams of product produced per pound of CO2 equivalent emissions, greenhouse facilities are nearly 70% more productive.  


Horticultural lighting accounts for 69% of total annual energy use in the indoor facilities and 32% of total annual energy use in the greenhouse facilities.  




“As the cannabis industry matures and nationwide market competition increases, it will be imperative for Boulder County cannabis cultivators to make data driven decisions that lead to energy savings while maintaining or increasing their productivity levels,” said Dave Hatchimonji, Energy Efficiency Program Manager at Boulder County. “This ERS report should give these organizations a foot up on their peers, while addressing Boulder County’s need to lower the carbon emissions for this energy intensive industry.” 


To further address this need to lower carbon emissions in the cannabis industry, Boulder County is working with the Cannabis Conservancy to launch a Cannabis Carbon Conscious certification program on June 11, 2020. This certification program is an industry leading energy certification program designed to be practical and cost-effective. To learn more, contact Jacob Policzer, director of the Cannabis Conservancy at jacob@cannabisconservancy.com . 



For more information about Boulder County’s sustainability mission and to learn about other programs, visit boco.org/sustainability or contact Christian Herrmann at cherrmann@bouldercounty.org .


For more information, visit www.BoulderCountyRecycles.org, or contact 720-564-2220 or resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/housing-and-human-services-director-frank-alexander-takes-new-role-with-casey-family-programs/




 


June 9, 2020




Department of Housing and Human Services Director Frank Alexander takes on new role with Casey Family Programs






Frank Alexander will help build a nationwide partnership system to ensure child- and family- well-being by advancing population-based, primary prevention strategies.





(Boulder County, Colo. -- June 9, 2020) -- Boulder County Department of Housing and Human Services (BCDHHS) Director Frank Alexander will conclude his 22-year career with the county in July to join Casey Family Programs as Managing Director of Judicial and National Engagements within Systems Improvement.
Alexander will be leading an effort to develop a 21st Century Child Well-Being system across the U.S. that develops innovative partnerships to dramatically reduce child maltreatment through proactive prevention-based outreach and supports. He has been serving in an advisory role for Casey Family Programs alongside his work in Boulder County, which for several years has had the lowest out-of-home child placement rate in the state while ensuring child safety and family stability.
Under Director Alexander’s leadership, BCDHHS was the first government agency in the country to merge separate housing and human services departments into an integrated services delivery framework. Over a decade later, the merger serves as a nationally recognized model for delivering integrated services and multi-generational supports that empower people and strengthen families and address the root causes of crisis and instability.

Frank Alexander will leave enormous shoes to fill. In his two decades with Boulder County, Frank's strategic and visionary leadership has transformed how we deliver services to families and individuals in need, taking a client-based and data-driven approach that maximizes positive outcomes for those most vulnerable in our community. He will be sorely missed!
-Boulder County Commissioner Elise Jones

Director Alexander has overseen BCDHHS for the last 12 years, through the 2008 Financial Crisis, the 2010 Fourmile Fire, the 2013 Flood, and subsequent recovery, and most recently as BCDHHS responds to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Boulder County has benefited greatly from Frank's 22 years of experience, expertise, and true passion for helping kids and families thrive in our community. While it is hard to lose someone in our organization as outstanding as Frank, we know he will excel in continuing to steer public policy in the direction of providing the greatest possible stability to families and individuals in need. We wish him all the best in his new role with Casey Family Programs.
-Deb Gardner, Chair, Boulder County Board of County Commissioners

Under Director Alexander’s leadership over the past 12 years, BCDHHS has evolved into a 500-person integrated services delivery organization that is focused on supporting whole families and individuals by proactively and simultaneously serving multiple generations with the full range of services and supports they need.

In addition to the legacy work around support for children and families in our community, Frank also has developed an outstanding team around him. While Frank himself will be missed, the staff in the department are well positioned to continue to provide an outstanding level of service, which is especially important during the current economic downturn. I am proud of Frank and proud of the entire Housing and Human Services Team for their commitment and dedication to public service.
-Jana Petersen, Boulder County Administrator

Over an average 12 months during typical times, BCDHHS serves more than 90,000 distinct clients with a wide range of wrap-around services, including food, housing, health coverage, child care, safety, education and skill building, parenting supports, services for older adults, and much more. Over the past decade:

The uninsured rate for health coverage in Boulder County has fallen from 12 percent to under 4 percent through a focused outreach and enrollment effort to significantly increase access to Medicaid and Affordable Care Act health coverage;
SNAP (food assistance) enrollment in the county has increased by 40 percent;
through preventive and supportive partnerships with families, the number of out-of-home child placements in Boulder County has safely remained steady and low despite a marked increase in referrals;
376 new affordable homes have been added, nearly 500 more are in the works, and Boulder County has helped lead the creation and implementation of a plan to triple the region’s stock of affordable homes;
The county’s Child Support Services program has generated dramatic increases in support payments through collaboration with non-custodial parents; and
BCDHHS has made significant progress in aligning and integrating multiple systems and data sources to ensure that the assistance each community member receives is informed by a well-rounded view of their needs.

Frank Alexander, who also serves as Executive Director of the Boulder County Housing Authority, has played a pivotal leadership role in the creation and guidance of the Boulder County Regional Housing Partnership, which established a goal of tripling the region’s supply of affordable homes by 2035, and quickly received the support of nine jurisdictions across Boulder County. The Partnership is also leading an initiative known as “Home Together” during COVID-19, which seeks to help connect families and individuals who are feeling isolated due to social distancing during the pandemic.

Simply put, Frank is the best. He grew through his long tenure with Boulder County to become a national leader in the area of housing and human services. But best of all, he and his staff have helped improve the lives of the people they serve each and every day, even in the midst of the pandemic and the Great Recession.

- Matt Jones, Vice-Chair, Boulder County Board of County Commissioners
Director Alexander has also been a leader in the community during the COVID-19 pandemic, spearheading efforts to provide additional emergency supports for individuals and families, including resources for accessing emergency rental assistance, food and financial assistance, health care and mental health care supports, help with housing, safety supports, child care assistance, legal services, and more.
Since March 2020, BCDHHS has:

Received and responded to over 32,000 text messages, 2,700 voicemails and over 1,500 emails;
Seen a sustained tripling in applications for supports and services;
Launched a Housing Helpline, a centralized bilingual community resources page for COVID-19, and a targeted support campaign for expecting parents and new parents with children under the age of one;
Leveraged community partnerships, internal resources, and voucher programs to provide emergency rental assistance and additional affordable housing resources to prevent housing dislocation during the pandemic.

Director Alexander also serves on a variety of cross-sector community and state boards and is the co-chair of the 21st Century Child Welfare System Steering Committee with Dr. David Sanders of Casey Family Programs. He is past chair of the Locals Executive Council of the American Public Human Services Association (APHSA), a member of the APHSA Executive Governing Board, and is past president of the Colorado Human Services Directors Association. Alexander has also led a focus on helping boost access to services throughout the community via a network of strong non-profit and governmental partners.

An important piece of Frank’s legacy is the strong partnerships that HHS built with community partners like Sister Carmen Community Center, Emergency Family Assistance Association, and OUR Center. His vision of a coordinated approach to providing services resulted in the formation of the Boulder County Family Resource Network, a collaboration of community-based agencies, school districts, HHS, Public Health, and others. We’ve been very fortunate to have Frank’s dedication and passion for improving the lives of all families in our community and I know he is going to carry that forward in his work with Casey Family Programs.
-Suzanne Crawford, CEO, Sister Carmen (Lafayette)

As a result of the efforts to integrate services, Boulder County Housing and Human Services has received more than 60 awards, including Mr. Alexander’s recognition with the Excellence for Children award from Casey Family Programs in 2012, Community of Hope award from Casey in 2014, and the 2019 APHSA Outstanding Local Member award.

We have long admired Frank’s leadership, vision and dedication to helping improve the lives of children and families in Colorado and across the nation. He has been an important partner with Casey Family Programs in our work to build Communities of Hope for many years and he will bring deep and practical experience and perspective in what it takes to transform our nation’s efforts to support long-lasting improvements to the safety and success of children, families and the communities where they live.
-David Sanders, Exec VP, Systems Improvement, Casey Family Programs









Frank Alexander

The COVID-19 pandemic has reinforced everything that I believe in and that we at Boulder County Housing and Human Services stand for: the inescapable need for strong community partnerships; integrated systems of care across public health, housing, and human services; broad and accessible affordable housing; strong social determinants of health focus; primary prevention in every area of life; early childhood supports; social and economic justice; and the necessity of strong, thriving families and communities. The COVID-19 crisis has highlighted and underlined the critical importance of evolving policy and practice collectively and equitably in order to transform our communities across the country for the better, for the well-being of every family, child, youth, and adult. I look forward to continuing this work beside our community, in a new role.”
-Frank Alexander






Boulder County will launch a nationwide search for the BCDHHS Director position in the months ahead.













Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage












Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-equipment-testing-successfully-completed-for-june-primary-election/




 


June 6, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County equipment testing successfully completed for June Primary Election






Boulder County, Colo. – Ballots and equipment to be used in the county’s upcoming June Primary Election passed a required Logic and Accuracy Test (LAT) held this past week.
Representatives from the local Democratic and Republican parties took part in testing at the Boulder County Clerk & Recorder's Office and confirmed the equipment’s ability to properly read ballots and correctly tabulate votes.
The LAT also confirmed ballots are properly printed for the election and the equipment is accurately calibrated to process ballots. Each type of ballot and all ballot styles were tested. In all, 2,366 ballots were tested, including 50 ballots generated by the testing board using ballot marking devices.
Each piece of equipment used during the LAT has been cleared of test votes and reset to zero, ensuring the equipment is ready to count live ballots for the Primary Election.
Results and test records will be available for review at BoulderCountyVotes.org under the Election Information section on Monday, June 8.
Boulder County voters can also visit BoulderCountyVotes.org to register to vote, check and update their voter registration, view ballot content, and learn more about local elections.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/hazardous-materials-management-facility-now-open-for-drop-off-by-appointment-only/




 


June 4, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



Hazardous Materials Management Facility now open for drop-off by appointment only

The HMMF is open for household (residential) waste drop-off from 8:30 a.m. to noon and 1 to to 4 p.m., Wednesday through Saturday. 
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County’s Hazardous Materials Management Facility (HMMF) has reopened and is currently accepting materials by appointment only to help limit the spread of the COVID-19. Create an appointment by visiting the scheduling website.
The HMMF is open for household (residential) waste drop-off from 8:30 a.m. to noon and 1 to to 4 p.m., Wednesday through Saturday. Business waste drop-off is only available on Tuesdays, starting June 9, by appointment using the same scheduling website. Please follow these guidelines when visiting the facility:

All visitors must wear a face covering.
Waste is only accepted outside the facility (do not enter the building).
Be prepared to unload hazardous materials from your vehicle onto a cart provided by the HMMF staff.
The reuse area is currently closed to the public. No reuse shopping will be allowed.
Do not visit the HMMF if you feel unwell or have a fever, cough, or shortness of breath.

The HMMF will be closed in the event of rain or other precipitation. Drop-offs will need to be rescheduled if the facility closes due to a weather event.
Visit the HMMF website for information on items acceptable for drop-off, or call 720-564-2251. The facility is located behind the Boulder County Recycling Center at 1901 63rd Street in Boulder.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-planning-commission-agenda-for-june-17-2020/





June 3, 2020




Boulder County Planning Commission agenda for June 17, 2020

Planning Commission public meeting will be held virtually starting at 1:30 p.m.





Boulder County, Colo. - The next meeting of the Boulder County Planning Commission will be Wed., June 17, 2020, beginning at 1:30 p.m. View the meeting agenda.
DUE TO COVID-19 CONCERNS THIS MEETING WILL BE HELD VIRTUALLY. SIGN-UP TO RECEIVE INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW PARTICIPATE IN THE VIRTUAL MEETING ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION WEBPAGE: www.boco.org/PC
There will be opportunity to remotely provide public comment on the subject dockets during the respective virtual Public Hearing portions for each item. Written comments for these dockets may be submitted by emailing planner@bouldercounty.org and referencing the docket number in the subject of the email. Call 303-441-3930 or email for more information.
Agenda items include:
Approval of Minutes/Miscellaneous Business
Nomination of Officers
Staff Updates
Items:


Public Hearing: Docket SU-18-0017 Phelps-Tointon Inc.Request: REVISED: Special Review for an approximately 28,000 square- foot indoor riding arena and barn.ORIGINAL: Special Review for an approximately 37,700 square-foot indoor riding arena.Location: 6871 N. 55th Street, the parcel located on the Southwest corner of the intersection of N. 55th and Niwot Rd., Section 33, Township 2N, Range 70W.Zoning: Agricultural (A)Applicant/Property Owner: Phelps-Tointon Inc.Agent: Bill TointonAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be taken.Staff Planner: Summer Frederick


Public Hearing: Docket SU-20-0002 Ward Agricultural StructuresRequest: Special Review and Site-Specific Development Plan to allow for the permitting of an existing 3,200-square-foot agricultural structure and the construction of a second 3,200-square-footagricultural structure on a 39.58-acre parcel with 30,326 square feet of existing structures.Location: 2300 75th Street, approximately .88 miles northeast of the intersection of 75th street and Arapahoe Road, in Section 25, Township 1N, Range 70W.Zoning: Rural Residential (RR)Applicant/Property Owner: Tom WardAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be takenStaff Planner: Ryan Kacirek


Public Hearing: Docket SU-19-0014 Niwot Business Association Parking LotRequest: Special Use review to allow for the construction of a 50-space multimodal parking facility (to be developed in phases) on 2.06- acre parcel #131725400009.Location: Parcel #131725400009, on the west side of Murray Street, at the intersection of 3rd Avenue and Murray Street in Niwot, in Section 25, Township 2N, Range 70W.Zoning: Rural Residential (RR)Property Owner: County of BoulderApplicant: Niwot Business AssociationAgent: Bruce WarrenAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be takenStaff Planner: Molly Marcucilli


Docket BVCP-20-0001 Boulder Valley Comprehensive Plan (BVCP) Mid-Term UpdateThis is an update regarding the community- and staff-initiated amendments to the BVCP as part of the mid-term update. Staff will review the process including providing a recap of the May 28, 2020 Planning Board meeting and take feedback from Planning Commission to consider as the update proceeds.Action Requested: None, Information item onlyPublic testimony will be takenStaff Planner(s): Abby Shannon, Alberto De Los Rios


Adjournment.
Staff reports will be posted to the docket webpages linked above on June 10.
Current and recent Planning Commission agendas, minutes, and archived video recordings are available on the Planning Commission webpage.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-offers-virtual-medicare-basics-classes/




 


June 2, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging offers virtual Medicare basics classes

Afternoon and evening classes available in June
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging’s Medicare Counseling program is offering live virtual Medicare Basis Classes in June 2020. These lively and entertaining classes are designed to provide the necessary information to older adults when getting ready to apply for Medicare. Participants will learn about how and when to enroll, the different parts of Medicare, what is covered and what is not, Medicare fraud, and other information related to the Medicare program.
Interested participants will need internet, a computer, and the appropriate application for the class. There are three classes being offered in the month of June. Please click on any one of the classes to register. Once registered, participants will receive instruction on how to join the class from their computer, tablet, or phone.

June 4, 2-3:30 p.m. Online Medicare Basics Class
June 17,  1:30-3 p.m. Online Medicare Basics Class
June 23, 6-7:30 p.m. Online Medicare Basics Class

For more information, or to set up an appointment with a Medicare Counselor, please call 303-441-1546.
 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-commissioners-reaffirm-anti-racism-stance-and-support-peaceful-protest/




 


June 1, 2020




Boulder County Commissioners reaffirm anti-racism stance and support peaceful protest






As white local elected leaders, we believe it is our obligation and duty to explicitly affirm that Black Lives Matter, here in Boulder County -- and everywhere. We add our voices to the chorus calling for justice in the recent murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, and Breonna Taylor, as well as countless other Black Americans before them. 
- Board of Boulder County Commissioners





Statement from the Board of Boulder County Commissioners
These are extraordinarily unsettling and challenging times. The global pandemic that is wreaking havoc on human lives and economies around the planet is the backdrop for yet another spate of murders highlighted in the media of unarmed Black people at the hands of some policemen and vigilantes. These were not isolated incidents but a chillingly familiar and frequent pattern of racial violence that has fueled a boiling point of outrage and frustration in cities across the country already frayed and polarized by the coronavirus.
As white local elected leaders, we believe it is our obligation and duty to explicitly affirm that Black Lives Matter, here in Boulder County -- and everywhere. We add our voices to the chorus calling for justice in the recent murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, and Breonna Taylor, as well as countless other Black Americans before them.
As white people, we will never know what it feels like to be Black in America. We can't fully understand the struggles that Black men and Black women face in our country, or the fear and danger People of Color experience just walking down the street. But we do know silence would mean complicity, and that in addition to voicing our opposition to racial violence, we must also use our white privilege and political platform to help disrupt and dismantle the institutional racism that fuels this violence and that is embedded in our society and government systems, a by-product of the enslavement and dehumanization of Black people upon which our country was built.
The cancer of racism in America is everyone’s problem and we must all do our part to create needed and lasting change. It is not enough to merely oppose racism; we must be actively anti-racist in both word and deed. So we join with others across the country in peacefully protesting* racial violence and affirmatively supporting and advocating for our Black community members.
In recent years, Boulder County has identified equity and justice as a top organizational priority, and we re-dedicate ourselves to this work, as individuals and within our county organization, to be better co-accomplices to all Black, Indigenous, and People of Color, and to collectively create an anti-racist, inclusive workplace and community that is welcoming and safe for all.
Sincerely,
Deb Gardner, Elise Jones, Matt Jones
Boulder County Commissioners





*Though it can be difficult, we urge protesters to attempt to maintain social distancing whenever possible, and remember that a Public Health Order mandating the use of face coverings is still in place within Boulder County. We would also suggest that protesters should monitor themselves for symptoms for at least seven days after a protest, and implement self-quarantine if you believe you may have been exposed to COVID-19. Testing for coronavirus is available throughout Boulder County (see list of locations) and a free testing site is also available to anyone at the Pepsi Center in Denver.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-clerk-recorder-to-resume-select-in-person-services-on-june-1/




 


May 29, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County Clerk & Recorder to resume select in-person services on June 1

Appointments required for Motor Vehicle services. Many services available remotely.





Boulder County, Colo. – In a recent press release, Boulder County announced that some in-person services will resume on Monday, June 1. This reopening, part of the County’s Forward Together Safely process, will be accompanied by new health and safety guidelines to protect against COVID-19.
As part of this process, the Clerk and Recorder’s office will resume in-person services on June 1 for services that cannot be handled remotely (online, by email, or over the phone). This only includes Motor Vehicle and Elections services that need to be completed in-person. Recording services will stay remote for the time being. Appointments required for Motor Vehicle and recommended for Elections. 
To protect the health of the public and our staff, the number of people in the building at one time will be limited. Staff and members of the public over the age of 12 will be required to wear face coverings (masks will be provided for those who do not have one). In addition, we have installed Plexiglas barriers at work stations that interface with the public, staggered seating for the public, and have instituted enhanced cleaning schedules.
Our normal hours of operation will be in effect: 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday.
Motor Vehicle:

Appointments will only be available for services that cannot be completed online or by mail. These typically include:

New titles, out-of-State titles, title concerns
Private party sales
First-time registrations that could not be completed online or by mail


Most other services can be completed online or by mail. Before calling for an appointment, please check to see if your service can be completed online at mydmv.colorado.gov. You can also check our website for more information: www.bouldercounty.org/motorvehicle

Call us between 8 a.m. – 4 p.m. to schedule an appointment (303-413-7710) or for assistance with completing a transaction online. We can also be reached at motorvehicle@bouldercounty.org. 

Recording:

All services (including marriage licenses) will continue to be handled remotely in order to help limit the number of people in the building at one time.
Visit our website for instructions for accessing services online: www.bouldercounty.org/records/recording/

If you need assistance, our staff are available to help via email or phone. Contact us at 303-413-7770 or recording@bouldercounty.org


Elections:

Please visit our website www.BoulderCountyVotes.org or call our office before visiting: 303-413-7740. Most election-related needs can be handled remotely without the need for an office visit.
Appointments are encouraged for select needs. More information on our website: www.BoulderCountyVotes.org


For updates related to the novel corona virus (COVID-19), go to www.BoCo.org/COVID-19.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-housing-and-human-services-continues-to-support-residents-remotely-during-covid-19/





May 29, 2020




Boulder County Housing and Human Services continues to support residents remotely during COVID-19

Staff remain available to connect residents to supports and services remotely, including: rent, food, and child care assistance, health coverage, and other important financial help 





Boulder County, Colo. -- As the statewide Safer at Home Order relaxes on June 1, the Boulder County Department of Housing & Human Services will continue to protect residents and staff from the COVID-19 pandemic by limiting public access in offices and providing remote assistance to community members accessing critical supports and benefits.
Contact Boulder County Housing & Human Services in the following ways:

Text 303-441-1069
Email hhscallcenter@bouldercounty.org

Use the Boulder County Connect Chat function at BoulderCountyConnect.org

Call the Housing Helpline and leave a message at 303-441-1206 (for rental assistance, mortgage questions, landlord/tenant mediation, etc.)
Email documents to Imaging@BoulderCounty.org

Call and leave a message at 303-441-1069 (due to high call volume, there may be a delay, but calls will be returned as soon as possible)
This information is also at www.boco.org/COVID-19ContactHHS







Sign-Up for COVID-19-Related Benefits
BCDHHS urges residents to sign up for supports and benefits that are available now. Food, financial, and child care assistance, help with housing and rent, unemployment benefits and business loans, free or reduced-cost health insurance, and more are available to many residents who have been affected by the virus outbreak.
Community members can visit Colorado Program Eligibility and Application Kit (PEAK) at www.Colorado.gov/PEAK to find out about a range of supports and programs, complete an application, and manage supports.
Supports and programs include:

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) - food assistance
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) - food assistance
Colorado Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP) - financial assistance for child care
Aid to the Needy Disabled (AND) - financial assistance
Colorado Works/Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) - financial assistance
Health First Colorado (Colorado's Medicaid program) - health coverage
Child Health Plan Plus (CHP+) - health coverage
…and much more!

Please visit www.boco.org/COVID-19Resources to learn more about the supports that are available to those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including emergency food, financial, and rent assistance.





More about Boulder County Housing & Human Services
The Boulder County Department of Housing and Human Services is a 500-person integrated services delivery organization that is focused on supporting whole families and individuals through a Two-Generation, Social Determinants of Health approach.
Over an average 12 months during typical times, BCDHHS serves more than 90,000 distinct clients with a wide range of wrap-around services, including food, housing, health coverage, child care, safety, education and skill building, parenting supports and much more.
Follow Boulder County Housing and Human Services on Facebook and visit the website to learn more about BCDHHS’ prevention-based wrap-around community supports and services.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/transfort-resumes-most-flex-bus-service-on-june-1/




 


May 29, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



Transfort resumes most FLEX bus service on June 1

First and last Boulder Express roundtrips not resuming
Transfort, the transit agency owned by the City of Fort Collins, will resume normal FLEX service on June 1, except for the first and last Boulder Express roundtrips.
The Boulder Express trips not resuming are:

Southbound from the South Transit Center in Fort Collins at 5:14 a.m. and Northbound from 18th & Euclid in Boulder at 7:09 a.m.
Southbound from the Downtown Transit Center in Fort Collins at 5:20 p.m. and Northbound from 18th & Euclid in Boulder at 7:20 p.m.

The temporary stops in Loveland at Lincoln & 23rd (COLT stops) will not be used. FLEX will stop at its normally scheduled stops during all trips including at the Loveland Food Bank.
For more information about FLEX service, including route information and times, visit ridetransfort.com/flex, or download the Ride Transfort app.
COVID-19 Response
FLEX service was suspended April 18 along with suspensions or reductions on several other routes in Fort Collins. The other suspensions and reductions are still in effect. All Transfort services continue to be fare-free under an emergency order signed in March. Beginning May 4, Transfort requires that passengers wear a face covering while riding, per a City order signed May 1.
The public is asked to only use Transfort for essential trips and passengers are asked to attempt to keep at least six feet of distance between other customers and Transfort staff. Passengers are also asked to board from the rear doors of the bus unless they are using a mobility device.
Transfort has been disinfecting driver and passenger areas of its buses in addition to regular nightly cleaning. The South Transit Center, Downtown Transit Center, and CSU Transit Center buildings are currently closed, but passengers may board and exit buses at the transit centers.
About FLEX
FLEX is a regional bus route serving stops between Fort Collins, Loveland, Berthoud, Longmont, and Boulder. This service is operated by Transfort and is made possible through regional partnerships.
FLEX offers a variety of options to maximize the convenience and accessibility to communities in Northern Colorado. FLEX provides service connecting Fort Collins, Loveland, Berthoud, Longmont, and Boulder. Transfers to the RTD bus system are available in Longmont and Boulder.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/homeless-solutions-for-boulder-county-to-close-30th-street-shelter/




 


May 29, 2020




Homeless Solutions for Boulder County to close 30th Street shelter

Coordinated entry and navigation services to move to north Boulder 





Boulder County, Colo.- As a housing-first model, Homeless Solutions for Boulder County (HSBC) is committed to ending the cycle of homelessness through investing in more permanent housing solutions for individuals experiencing homelessness. To align with this principle, Homeless Solutions for Boulder County (HSBC) is moving forward with its planned consolidation of the 2691 30th Street navigation program shelter in the City of Boulder with the Boulder Shelter for the Homeless (BSH) in north Boulder at 4869 Broadway.
The shelter location at 30th Street, which was put in place as a temporary measure in 2017 during the launch of HSBC and is operated by Bridge House, will close as scheduled by May 31, 2020. The closure aligns with HSBC’s success placing people in housing and will allow resources to be re-allocated to housing options for people experiencing homelessness. Bridge House and BSH have worked together to prepare clients to transition from the 30th Street site to BSH on June 1.
“We greatly appreciate our partners, Bridge House and Boulder Shelter for the Homeless, for the hard work in developing and operating a new model for addressing homelessness in our community,” said Kurt Firnhaber, City of Boulder Director of Housing and Human Services. “While BSH will now operate both programs at their facility and Bridge House will continue to make positive impacts for those experiencing homelessness through their other programs like Ready to Work and Community Table.”
To continue on the path of ending homelessness, HSBC, in partnership with local housing authorities (Boulder Housing Partners, Longmont Housing Authority, and Boulder County Housing Authority) and municipal city and Boulder County governments, have invested more funds in providing housing opportunities in recent years to align with the strategic vision. The funding provides more permanent housing options than the temporary shelter beds to house individuals who are experiencing homelessness in our community.
“HSBC is committed to offering services that align with housing-first principles and ending homelessness in our community. We are grateful for the work Bridge House has provided to our most vulnerable community members and look forward to them continuing to be a steadfast community partner. We have the utmost confidence that Boulder Shelter for the Homeless will continue to support our shared mission of creating avenues to stable housing for our community's homeless adults,” said Robin Bohannan, Boulder County Director of Community Services.











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-community-services-department-contact-information-and-updates-as-of-june-1/




 


May 29, 2020




Boulder County Community Services Department contact information and updates as of June 1

Community Services continues remote service delivery as Boulder County moves to “Forward Together Safely” phase on June 1.
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Community Services will continue to provide online and phone services for residents and clients, with limited, in-person appointments available to help meet critical needs. Program divisions in Community Services include:

Boulder County Area Agency on Aging (including Veterans Services)
Boulder County Head Start, Community Action Programs
Community Justice Services, Healthy Youth Alliance, and
Workforce Boulder County.

Following Boulder County guidelines, Community Services will implement a staggered opening with county policies in place for staff and all in-person office visits.

To reach the Boulder County Call Center for more information on COVID-19 and Public Health updates, Workforce Boulder County, Human Services, Area Agency on Aging, and Small Business Grant information, please call 720-776-0822 during business hours Monday-Friday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.





 Divison


Phone

Email Address (if available)


Boulder County Area Agency on Aging
303-441-3570
bcaaa@bouldercounty.org


Boulder County Head Start*
303-441-3980
hsenrollment@bouldercounty.org


Community Action Programs
303-441-3975



Community Justice Services**
303-441-3690



Healthy Youth Alliance
303-441-1607




Workforce Boulder County***

720-776-0822



Veterans Services
303-441-3890




*There are currently no Head Start programs in the summer. For Head Start fall enrollment, please call 720-564-2206.
**The Juvenile Assessment Center, Bond Commissioner and Pretrial Services, Restoring our Communities program, Community Service, and Boulder Enhanced Supervision Team will have limited, reduced staffing at the Boulder Justice Center onsite. All in-person meetings will be by appointment only and on an as-needed basis.
***Scheduled GED testing and case management services is expected to resume with Public Health precautions in place for testing. Case management services will be limited to scheduled appointments and as needed to address case management concerns.





In-Person Services and Notifications
The Community Services Sundquist building (at N. Broadway & Iris) will remain closed to the public at this time and there are no walk-in services available.
Scheduled in-person appointments are limited to the St. Vrain Community Hub in Longmont. Adhering to public health guidelines, social distancing rules will apply in all county buildings and face coverings will be required for those visiting county buildings for business.
Boulder County Community Services Department will continue to work with county and public health officials in implementing proper protocols during this time for the safety and well-being of our clients and staff.
Please visit the Boulder County website for more information around Boulder County reopening and available online services.
For Community Services Department phased reopening information, please contact Alice Kim, Communications Manager at askim@bouldercounty.org.












Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-community-forestry-sort-yards-to-open-for-the-2020-season-in-june/




 


May 22, 2020




Boulder County Community Forestry Sort Yards to open for the 2020 season in June

County residents can drop off tree branches, logs, and yard waste free of charge in Nederland and Allenspark
Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Community Forestry Sort Yard program, a free log and slash disposal service for Boulder County residents, will open for the 2020 season in June.
Nederland Sort Yard - 291 Ridge Road, Nederland - Open Wednesday, June 3, through Saturday, Oct. 17 • Hours of Operation: Wednesday through Saturday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Meeker Park Sort Yard - 8200 Hwy 7, Allenspark • Open Wednesday, June 17, through Saturday, Oct. 10 • Hours of Operation: Wednesday through Saturday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The sort yards may have periodic closures depending on weather, staff training, and administrative requirements. County residents can drop off tree branches, logs, and yard waste (pine needles, cut grass, pine cones) free of charge at either sort yard location. Please check the webpage for details on what can be accepted at the sort yards.
For more information about the sort yard program please visit the Community Forestry Sort Yards webpage or contact Wayne Harrington at wharrington@bouldercounty.org or 303-678-6368.

Meeker Park Sort Yard






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-to-test-ballots-and-equipment-for-upcoming-primary-election-4/




 


May 22, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County to test ballots and equipment for upcoming Primary Election

Logic and Accuracy Test to take place beginning June 2





Boulder County, Colo. – Beginning on June 2, the Boulder County Elections Division will conduct a logic and accuracy test on ballots and equipment to be used for the 2020 June Primary Election.
The test ensures that equipment properly tabulates votes. Each type of ballot and all ballot styles will be tested to verify they are properly printed and read by the scanning equipment. The test will also confirm that scanning equipment settings are properly calibrated for the ballots. Testing is open to the public, but due to COVID-19, capacity limits and safety directives will be enforced. RSVP is requested.


What:   Logic and Accuracy Testing – Testing of ballots and equipment for upcoming election.

When:  Tuesday, June 2, 9:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. If needed, testing will continue Wednesday, June 3. Anticipated Test Board review of results, sign-off, resetting, and resealing of equipment: 1 p.m. – 3 p.m. on Friday, June 5.

Where: Ballot Processing Center, Boulder County Clerk & Recorder’s Office, 1750 33rd Street in Boulder. RSVP requested by noon on Monday, June 1 to Vote@BoulderCountyVotes.org or by calling 303-413-7740. Space is limited. Additionally, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, state emergency election rules and Boulder County Public Health COVID-19 safety directives will be enforced. LAT participants and observers will be required to wear a mask and follow instructions provided by staff for the safe conduct of the LAT. Upon arrival each day, a temperature check and wellness screen may be required. 

After testing concludes, documentation and results will be available online.
Boulder County voters can also visit www.BoulderCountyVotes.org to register to vote, check and update their voter registration, view ballot content, and learn more about local elections.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-public-health-director-gives-covid-19-update/




 


May 22, 2020




Boulder County Public Health Director gives COVID-19 update

Boulder County Public Health Director Gives COVID-19 Update
We're at a critical time. We must all work together. 
Boulder County, CO – Today Boulder County Public Health Executive Director, Jeff Zayach, provided a video update on COVID-19 in Boulder County, and words of caution as Memorial weekend begins.
“I can’t stress enough that the responsibility to stop the spread of this disease is yours, mine, and everybody’s. It is up to each of us to meet the criteria that are necessary in this phase to be able to go back to having more social interactions, being able to open more of our critical infrastructure and businesses who are suffering so badly,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health executive director.
“We want people to take responsibility. The examples we saw this week with the Boulder Creek gatherings are exactly what we don’t want to do – that is not taking personal responsibility. That is putting our community at risk; our businesses at risk.”
“I appreciate each and every one of you for helping support us in moving forward in a positive way. Let’s keeping moving forward together.”
Watch the video at https://boco.org/COVIDUpdate0522 or at boco.org/covid-19.  
Boulder County Public Health COVID-19 updates are shared by press release and/or on the Boulder County Public Health Facebook and Twitter social media pages and the COVID-19 website at www.boco.org/covid-19. 
 
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/covid-19-testing-widely-available-in-boulder-county/





May 21, 2020




COVID-19 testing widely available in Boulder County

Residents with symptoms or those who work with the public are encouraged to get tested
Boulder County, CO — This week Governor Polis announced that Colorado now has the supplies and capacity to test anyone with COVID-19 symptoms and encourages those with symptoms to get tested for the virus.
“Now that we have adequate supplies we hope residents who have symptoms of COVID-19, have contact with someone who is positive, or who is an essential worker will consider getting tested,” said Dr Chris Urbina, Boulder County Public Health medical officer. “Testing can help quickly identify people with the illness and ensure they’re safely separated from others to prevent spread of the disease at home or work. Early testing also helps to identify anyone who was in close contact with the infected person so that they too can quickly and safely be separated from others to stop disease spread.”
Anyone who has symptoms of COVID-19 can be tested. In addition, anyone with or without symptoms who is employed as a health care worker, nursing home worker, first responder, or is an essential worker who directly interacts with the public while working, per state or employer guidelines, can also get tested.
Boulder County residents who would like to be tested for the novel coronavirus and meet the testing criteria can contact their regular health care provider or visit a community testing site.
Both the viral (swab-based) testing and antibody (serology) testing are available. Viral tests determine if the virus is present in a person’s body. They help diagnose new infections quickly after a person has become infected so the spread of disease can be contained. Antibody tests or serologic tests look for the body's response to the virus in the blood and can be used in research to understand where the virus has been and the extent of its spread. Antibody tests cannot be used to diagnosis an acute infection.
“The more people that get tested, the better picture we’ll have of the disease within the county,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health executive director. “One thing that’s important to remember is that as more people are tested, we will see more positive results. Tracking and tracing close contacts will be vital to control the virus and save lives.”
The Colorado Division of Insurance has directed Colorado-regulated insurance plans not to charge copays for testing, and residents with Medicaid insurance can get tested with no cost. For individuals without insurance, community testing sites can send samples to the state lab and the state will cover the cost of the testing and supplies. In addition, most businesses are now required to provide paid leave for those who test positive.
Some individuals or families may be newly eligible for Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program due to decreased income. Both programs cover costs of COVID-19-related health care (including doctor-ordered testing). Medicaid will cover life-threatening COVID-19-related health care for undocumented immigrants and will not be considered a negative factor in a public charge determination. Undocumented immigrants can also get free or very-low-cost COVID-19 health care at community health providers or primary care offices without Medicaid.
Anyone who has lost job-based health insurance coverage within the last 60 days may qualify for a special enrollment period in Connect for Health Colorado.
Community members can apply for Medicaid at www.Colorado.gov/PEAK, or visit www.boco.org/COVID-19ContactHHS to learn how to apply through Boulder County Housing and Human Services.
For information about testing results in Boulder County, visit www.boco.org/covid19illnessrecovery.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-boulder-county-public-health-press-colorado-air-quality-control-commission-to-adopt-updated-greenhouse-gas-pollution-rules/




 


May 21, 2020




Boulder County & Boulder County Public Health press Colorado Air Quality Control Commission to adopt updated greenhouse gas pollution rules

State considers updating carbon pollution regulations
Denver, CO - Colorado Communities for Climate Action (CC4CA)* and the Local Government Coalition (LGC)** — two coalitions representing 37 local Colorado governments, including Boulder County and Boulder County Public Health — have pressed the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) to adopt a suite of updated greenhouse gas pollution rules. 

The AQCC is today (May 21) considering "Regulation 22," which would phase out a dangerous class of potent greenhouse gases known as HFCs and update the state's rules on reporting and tracking greenhouse gas pollution. The local governments are an official party to the Regulation 22 rulemaking and are providing formal testimony during the hearing. 


"With every passing day the enormous dangers of the climate crisis, much like the risks of pandemics like COVID-19, become more apparent," said Anita Seitz, Westminster's Mayor Pro Tem. "Local communities across Colorado applaud the AQCC for taking this work seriously and striving so hard to protect Colorado's future." 


"Carbon emissions have no boundaries," noted Denver City Council President Jolon Clark. "Denver is taking a bold lead on climate action but we can’t reach our science-based goals without cooperation from our regional partners. I’m very proud that local governments, on the Front Range and the Western Slope, large and small, have come together to tackle climate change. These new rules will help us make sure we are focusing on the strategies that work to protect our health and all of our communities." 


The rulemaking is a direct result of legislation adopted last year by the Colorado General Assembly establishing statewide greenhouse gas emissions goals, directing the AQCC and other entities to update their regulations in order to meet these goals, and to dramatically improve how the state measures and tracks these emissions. The Regulation 22 proposal includes four issues of particular interest: 



HFC Phaseout. HFCs (high-emitting hydrofluorocarbons) are a potent class of greenhouse gases primarily found in cooling and refrigeration. HFCs are up to ten thousand times more dangerous to the climate per pound than carbon dioxide, and HFC emissions are growing faster than the emissions of any other greenhouse gas. CC4CA and the LGC support the proposed phaseout of HFCs. Delaying the phaseout will result in significant unnecessary carbon pollution. 
Liquid Fuels. CC4CA and the LGC oppose the proposal to exclude liquid fuel suppliers from its greenhouse gas inventory. Liquid fuels, primarily transportation fuels and propane, make up a sizable portion of Colorado's carbon pollution. Omitting them will make it impossible for the state to meet its 2025 and 2030 carbon pollution goals. 
Underground Coal Mines. CC4CA and the LGC support including underground coal mines, which are another substantial source of carbon pollution. 
GHG Inventories. CC4CA and the LGC support the proposed plan for reporting and inventorying greenhouse gas emissions. Effective reporting and inventorying are essential for assessing progress and for evaluating which strategies are working and which aren't. 



Although clear in the view that the state must continue taking decisive action to reduce carbon pollution, local government leaders also recognize the importance of supporting communities that are in transition from fossil-based economies. 


"The decline of the fossil fuel industry is a regional challenge. If Colorado is to have any kind of future, we simply must reduce our carbon pollution levels," observed Eagle County Commissioner Matt Scherr. "But at the same time, we are committed to supporting communities through this transition." 


One major benefit of new regulations that further reduce carbon pollution, especially in light of the pandemic, is that they nearly always also reduce other forms of dangerous pollution.  


“Public health agencies all over Colorado are fighting a severe pandemic that targets the respiratory system,” said Cindy Copeland, air and climate policy specialist for Boulder County Public Health. "By strengthening air quality standards, we can help protect Colorado against the impacts of climate change and pandemics like this one." 


*Colorado Communities for Climate Action is a coalition of 34 towns, cities, and counties across Colorado advocating for strong statewide climate policy.  


**The Local Government Coalition is composed of 10 local government agencies from across Colorado, including the City and County of Denver, Boulder County Public Health, the City of Aurora, and Tri-County Health Department.


-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/parking-near-boulder-area-mountain-open-space-locations-is-extremely-limited/




 


May 21, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Parking near Boulder-area mountain open space locations is extremely limited

High visitation and parking congestion serve as reminders for people to recreate close to home.
Boulder County, Colo. - The City of Boulder and Boulder County continue to stress that parking at Flagstaff Mountain and Hessie Trailhead near Nederland remains extremely limited due to the high number of visitors. People who choose to recreate in those areas over Memorial Day weekend should not expect to find a parking spot – which can diminish their intended outdoor experiences – and should consider recreating as close to home as possible.
While the city and county recognize the value of outdoor recreation in supporting community members emotional and physical health, they continue to remind visitors of the state Safer at Home order that:

Limits recreational travel to no further than 10 miles from their residence.
Prohibits public gatherings of 10 or more people in public spaces.

In recent weeks, City of Boulder Open Space and Mountain Parks (OSMP) and Boulder County Parks & Open Space (BCPOS) have observed increasing parking congestion on Flagstaff Road near Walker Ranch and Fourth of July Road at the Hessie Trailhead near Nederland. More than 225 cars have been turned away on each weekend day at Hessie when parking was full. It should be noted that two roads remain close in these areas: the Fourth of July Road from the Hessie Trailhead to the Fourth of July Trailhead and Flagstaff Mountain Summit Road.
Visitors who ignore “no parking” signs, block emergency access gates or have any part of their tires touching the white lines on county roads may be ticketed and their cars towed. City of Boulder and Boulder County open space rangers continue to prioritize education of public health orders; however, they will issue citations for behavior that endangers the public.
Boulder County and City of Boulder continue to remind people to:

Honor the fire restrictions currently in place in western unincorporated Boulder County. This include restrictions on recreational sports shooting.
Always bring face coverings when visiting open space. Anyone over 12 years old is required to wear face coverings anytime they cannot maintain six feet of distance at OSMP and BCPOS trailheads and when passing others on trails.
Visit open space areas in groups of four or fewer people because larger groups can impede traffic on trails and make it difficult for people to maintain social distance. OSMP and BCPOS also request that visitors not gather at open space parks. Picnic tables and shelters are closed.
Stay on trail if no one else is around. If visitors need to maintain physical distance on narrow trails, they should step onto a rock or a bare spot – if possible – to let others pass, then step back on the trail.
Adhere to dog regulations for specific trails, pick up after their dogs, and remove their trash.
Stay out of wildlife closure areas and other areas closed to the public.
Know their limits and not take any risks to help protect first responders.
Be considerate of others.


Vehicles line up looking for parking near Hessie Trailhead






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-and-other-communities-across-colorado-push-for-stronger-air-climate-protections/




 


May 20, 2020




Boulder County and other communities across Colorado push for stronger air & climate protections

State considering adoption of updated rules on carbon pollution





Boulder County, Colo. - The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) will consider proposals tomorrow (Thursday, May 21) to phase out a class of potent greenhouse gases known as HFCs and adopt updated rules on reporting and tracking greenhouse gas pollution.
Boulder County will join Colorado Communities for Climate Action (CC4CA)* and the Local Government Coalition (LGC)** — two networks representing 37 local Colorado governments — to focus on Regulation 22. These local governments are an official party to the rulemaking and will provide formal testimony during the hearing.
The rulemaking is a direct result of legislation adopted last year by the Colorado General Assembly establishing statewide greenhouse gas emissions goals, directing the AQCC and other entities to update their regulations in order to meet these goals, and to dramatically improve how the state measures and tracks these emissions.
Four issues are of particular interest, all of which are part of the Regulation 22 hearing:


HFC Phaseout. HFCs (high-emitting hydrofluorocarbons) are a potent class of greenhouse gases primarily found in cooling and refrigeration. HFCs are up to ten thousand times more dangerous to the climate per pound than carbon dioxide, and HFC emissions are growing faster than the emissions of any other greenhouse gas. CC4CA and the LGC support the proposed phaseout of HFCs. Delaying the phaseout will result in significant unnecessary carbon pollution.

Liquid Fuels. CC4CA and the LGC oppose the proposal to exclude liquid fuel suppliers from its greenhouse gas inventory. Liquid fuels, primarily transportation fuels and propane, make up a sizable portion of Colorado's carbon pollution. Omitting them will make it impossible for the state to meet its 2025 and 2030 carbon pollution goals.

Underground Coal Mines. CC4CA and the LGC support including underground coal mines, which are another substantial source of carbon pollution.

GHG Inventories. CC4CA and the LGC support the proposed plan for reporting and inventorying greenhouse gas emissions. Effective reporting and inventorying are essential for assessing progress and for evaluating which strategies are working and which aren't.

The AQCC meeting begins today (May 20) at 4:30 p.m. with a public comment session and resumes tomorrow morning (May 21) at 9 a.m. with another public comment session and continues throughout the morning as the Commission considers a range of proposed air quality rules changes. The "Regulation 22" hearing is scheduled for 10:30 a.m, but it is possible the AQCC will have to reconvene on Friday to make a decision.
* Colorado Communities for Climate Action is a coalition of 34 towns, cities, and counties across Colorado advocating for strong statewide climate policy.
** The Local Government Coalition is composed of 10 local government agencies from across Colorado, including the City and County of Denver, Boulder County Public Health, the City of Aurora, and Tri-County Health Department.
###
Contact:
Christian Herrmann, Climate Communications SpecialistBoulder County720-450-0059






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/naming-contest-begins-for-the-boulder-county-recycling-centers-new-sorting-robots/




 


May 19, 2020

Contact: 720-564-2220
resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org



Naming contest begins for the Boulder County Recycling Center’s new sorting robots

Boulder County, Colo. -The Boulder County Recycling Center is installing two robots to help sort recyclable materials more quickly, efficiently, and safely, and we’d like everyone’s help naming our two newest teammates.  
Please visit the Recycling Center’s Facebook page to vote for your favorite name pairing so we can get the nametags ready for their uniforms. Voting for the naming contest will close on Monday, June 1. The winning names will be announced in June. 
The robotic equipment was funded in part by a grant from the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment’s Recycling Resource Economic Opportunity (RREO) Program, which promotes economic development through waste diversion in Colorado.  
“This is an exciting project to help Boulder County toward its goal to be Zero Waste or ‘darn near’ by 2025, and we are grateful to CDPHE for the grant funding,” said Darla Arians, Resource Conservation Division Manager. “This robotic technology will allow us to better serve residents, ensure more recyclable materials get a second life, and continue the resiliency and leadership of the county’s recycling center now and into the future.” 
For more information, contact Darla Arians, Resource Conservation Division Manager, at darians@bouldercounty.org, or visit www.bouldercountyrecycles.org. 






For more information, visit www.BoulderCountyRecycles.org, or contact 720-564-2220 or resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-to-offer-healthier-living-chronic-disease-self-management-program-online/




 


May 18, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging to Offer “Healthier Living: Chronic Disease Self-Management Program” Online

Classes begin July 7, on Tuesdays. Register today to participate
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging will be offering a new, virtual version of the Healthier Living/Chronic Disease Self-Management Program beginning July 7, 2020 on Tuesdays from 1-3:30 p.m. This class is designed for people living with chronic health conditions including chronic pain, arthritis, heart disease, diabetes, and more. Participants will receive a book and take part of in weekly virtual meetings for seven weeks and topics covered in this course will include:

Making Decisions
Understanding Emotions
Healthy Eating
Problem Solving
Physical Activity
Pain Management
Weight Management
Medication Usage
Communication

This course is open to participants 60 and over and their caregivers in Boulder County. Video conferencing applications and internet will be required for the course.
For more information and to register, please contact our Healthy Aging Team by June 5, 2020 at infoHealthyAging@bouldercounty.org or call 303-441-4583.
 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/transfort-reinstates-partial-and-modified-flex-bus-service/




 


May 15, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



Transfort reinstates partial and modified FLEX bus service

Limited FLEX trips resume on May 18 for Monday through Friday service
Transfort, the transit agency owned by the City of Fort Collins, will resume some FLEX service on May 18, with three round trips daily between Fort Collins and Boulder.
FLEX will resume three round trips to and from Boulder on weekdays. This is Transfort’s first step toward getting service back up to normal operating levels.
Starting May 18, Transfort will begin running the following FLEX trips Monday through Friday:

Northbound: Departing Boulder 8:09 a.m., 3:18 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. with stops in Longmont, Loveland and Fort Collins.
Southbound: Departing Fort Collins at 6 a.m, 1:15 p.m. and 3:25 p.m. with stops in Loveland, Longmont and Boulder.

These trips will stop at the regular FLEX express stops in each community. A northbound and southbound stop will be added near the Loveland North Transfer Center using COLT stops at Lincoln & 23rd south of the Food Bank.
View the FLEX timetable and select Exceptions > 5/18-TBD = Reduced Weekday Service for full schedule details, or download the Ride Transfort app.
COVID-19 Response
FLEX service was suspended April 18 along with suspensions or reductions on several other routes in Fort Collins. The other suspensions and reductions are still in effect. All Transfort services continue to be fare-free under an emergency order signed in March.Beginning May 4, Transfort requires that passengers wear a face covering while riding, per a City order signed May 1.
The public is asked to only use Transfort for essential trips and passengers are asked to attempt to keep at least six feet of distance between other customers and Transfort staff. Passengers are also asked to board from the rear doors of the bus unless they are using a mobility device.
Transfort has been disinfecting driver and passenger areas of its buses in addition to regular nightly cleaning. The South Transit Center, Downtown Transit Center, and CSU Transit Center buildings are currently closed, but passengers may board and exit buses at the transit centers.
About FLEX
FLEX is a regional bus route serving stops between Fort Collins, Loveland, Berthoud, Longmont, and Boulder. This service is operated by Transfort and is made possible through regional partnerships.
FLEX offers a variety of options to maximize the convenience and accessibility to communities in Northern Colorado. FLEX provides service connecting Fort Collins, Loveland, Berthoud, Longmont, and Boulder. Transfers to the RTD bus system are available in Longmont and Boulder.
For more information about FLEX service, including route information, visit ridetransfort.com/flex.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/four-ways-to-support-boulder-county-farmers-and-food-systems-during-covid-19/





May 12, 2020




Five Ways to Support Boulder County Farmers and Food Systems During COVID-19

Boulder County, Colo. - Local farmers and those who are food-insecure face major challenges as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our community. Changes in day-to-day agricultural production along with the disruption of local and global supply chains have impacted food systems across the nation. 
“Boulder County is committed to supporting a sustainable and just food system for all of its residents, especially in these uncertain times,” said Tim Broderick, Senior Sustainability Strategist for Boulder County’s Office of Sustainability, Climate Action & Resilience. “We’re proud of the programs and adaptations that have been developed by our agricultural community in the face of this crisis.”
With the spring growing season officially underway in Colorado, there are ways the public can help neighbors and local food producers affected by the virus outbreak.
“Boulder County Farmers Markets is currently running a pick-up and drive through operation where people can preorder veggie boxes with other add-ons like eggs, tortillas, and bread,” said Amelia Hulbert, Healthy Eating, Active Living Specialist at Boulder County Public Health. “We worked closely with them to develop a process to ensure social distancing, minimal contact with bags, hand sanitizing after handling each order, and taking temperatures of staff and volunteers.”
Here are five ways Boulder County residents can support local farmers and food insecure individuals during the COVID-19 pandemic:

Patronize a virtual farmers market. BCFM2Go, a virtual extension of Boulder County Farmers Markets, was launched in response to the COVID-19 crisis. Orders can be placed online and collected via their drive through operation. Learn more at https://bcfm.localfoodmarketplace.com/. BCFM2Go also accepts SNAP and other food-purchasing assistance programs through a different online order form. WIC families can receive a $20 value produce box for free by showing their valid eWIC card. Learn more at https://bcfm.org/programs/food-access/ or email foodaccess@bcfm.org for more information. 
Purchase food from a local farm stand. Many farm stands are functioning with additional health and safety precautions set in place. Measures include social distancing, the utilization of protective face masks, and asking those with symptoms to stay home. Some farms are offering pre-boxed options for vegetables and other products. Depending on location, the public can place orders online or research opening hours to find a convenient time to visit in person. To support your local farmers all season, Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) shares can also be purchased online. CSAs ensure a steady income for farmers. To locate nearby farm stands and CSAs, visit Boulder County Farmers Markets’ “find your farmer” database at https://bcfm.org/find-your-farmer/ . 

Grow a row. Community Food Share, located in Louisville, operates a garden share program where home gardeners can donate freshly picked fruit, vegetables, and herbs. Gardeners can pledge to set aside a row of produce to grow, harvest, and donate to individuals and families facing food insecurity. Make a pledge to Grow a Row at https://communityfoodshare.org/donations/donate-food/garden-share/. Residents can also check with their local food bank to see if they have similar programs in place.
Grow and give. Home gardeners can also grow and donate produce through Colorado State University Extension’s Grow & Give Modern Victory Garden Project. This program offers free resources and training for anyone who would like to grow their own modern day ‘Victory Garden’ — a reference to gardens planted at private residences and public parks during the World Wars to indirectly aid the war effort and boost public morale. Visit www.growandgivecolorado.org to learn more and register your home or community garden. 

Support restaurants that buy from local farmers. Many restaurants are offering to-go options that include food items made with local meat, vegetables, cheese, and more. To identify which restaurants are sourcing food and ingredients from local farms, review online menus or call to ask.

For more information about Boulder County’s sustainability mission and to learn about other programs, contact Christian Herrmann at cherrmann@bouldercounty.org or visit www.boco.org/sustainability.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/public-comments-about-climate-rules-requested-by-may-20/




 


May 12, 2020

Contacts:
Barb Halpin, Public Information Officer, 303-441-1622
Kim Sanchez, Chief Planner, Land Use, 720-564-2627



Public Comments about Climate Rules Requested by May 20

Improving air quality is the goal
Boulder County, CO - In 2019, a number of bills were passed in the Colorado legislature to help address our climate crisis. The bills are currently shaping statewide health and environmental policy and will have an impact on both state and local air pollution for years to come. Some of the same sources of greenhouse gases that are altering the climate are also sources of air pollution harmful to respiratory health. If implemented effectively, the rules could help Colorado meet its climate goals and improve the pollution levels that earned Boulder County an “F” from the American Lung Association in 2019.
“The real effects of climate change are being felt in Colorado not only in the form of higher temperatures, unpredictable precipitation, and more frequent forest fires, but also through increased ozone pollution,“ said Collin Tomb, Boulder County Public Health air quality team lead. “And since ground-level ozone as well as its precursors and associated pollutants are also greenhouse gases, high ozone and climate change reinforce each other.”
Ozone is a lung irritant that worsens respiratory diseases, including asthma.  Respiratory disease is a major risk factor for severe COVID-19 outcomes.
The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission is holding its first rulemaking to reduce greenhouse gases, which will also help reduce other air pollutants. Boulder County Public Health is co-leading a coalition of local governments and health departments to urge aggressive reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The hearings on May 20 and 21 will consider actions such as requiring the reporting of GHG emissions and the phasing out of hydrofluorocarbons — powerful GHGs primarily used in cooling and refrigeration.
“Public health agencies are fighting a severe pandemic that targets the respiratory system,” said Cindy Copeland, Boulder County Public Health air quality and climate policy specialist. “This is the exact time to strengthen the rules we need to improve our air quality and preserve our climate.”
Boulder County, Boulder County Public Health, and Colorado Communities for Climate Action are working at the state level to ensure Coloradans get the air and climate protections we need now more than ever.
“We encourage residents to learn how these climate rules could affect them and to make their voices heard,” said Copeland.
Learn more about how the state climate rules are being developed at:


www.boulderocunty.org/environment and

https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdphe/greenhouse-gas-reporting-and-hydrofluorocarbons-emission-reduction.

Public comment for the climate rulemaking hearings can be submitted online by Wednesday, May 20 to cdphe.aqcc-comments@state.co.us or by signing up to give comments at the live, remote public comment session.
The public comment session is on May 20 from 4:30-7:30 and the public can listen to the rulemaking hearing on May 21.








For news and updates on oil and gas development in Boulder County, visit the county’s Oil and Gas webpage.  |  Sign-up to receive oil and gas updates from Boulder County.













For news and updates on oil and gas development in Boulder County, visit the county’s Oil and Gas webpage.  |  Sign-up to receive oil and gas updates from Boulder County.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-youth-corps-canceled-for-2020-season-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/




 


May 11, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Boulder County Youth Corps canceled for 2020 season due to COVID-19 pandemic.

Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Youth Corps has been canceled for the 2020 season due to concerns associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. As the county considers the health and safety of staff and the public, it has been determined that the correct path forward for the Youth Corps is to cancel the 2020 season.
The logistics posed by transporting teens throughout the county to work on many different projects proved insurmountable under the current state and county public health guidelines.
Program manager Judy Wolfe stated, “While this has been a heartbreaking turn of events for everyone who was looking forward to joining the program this summer, it’s important that the youth corps program does what is most beneficial for our community by helping limit the spread of the coronavirus and allow the county to concentrate resources on restoring essential services to our residents.”
Scott Segerstrom, executive director of the Colorado Youth Corps Association which annually accredits the Boulder County Youth Corps, wrote in an email, “Boulder County and its youth corps have been through floods, wildfires, a pandemic—and nothing’s stopped the program from opening its doors the next season. There will be more lives to change a year from now, and the corps community will help ensure BCYC will be ready to roll.”
Former employees are trying to remain positive despite the bad news. Hunter Mayhew, a long-time youth corps employee who was about to embark on his eight season but his first in the team leader position, said, “We’ll just have to come back stronger than ever next season!” Corps member Liam Jenner, who was going to return as a second-year corps member on the team for the Town of Superior, wrote in an email, “While it is a huge disappointment that it had to close, we all hope to be back next summer, painting fences, maintaining trails, and smelling like linseed oil.”
Those interested in being alerted when recruitment starts for the 2021 season can sign up on the Boulder County Youth Corps webpage.

Corps members scraping a picnic table at the Ag Heritage Center (June 2019)






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/emergency-relief-grants-available-to-unincorporated-businesses/




 


May 8, 2020




Emergency Relief Grants Available to Businesses in Unincorporated Boulder County

The application opens on May 8 and all applications must be received by May 18 at 11:59 p.m.





Boulder County, Colo. -- The Boulder County Board of County Commissioners has developed a Small Business COVID-19 Emergency Relief Grant Program with total funding of $200,000. The purpose of this program is to provide some immediate financial support for small businesses experiencing financial hardship directly related to the COVID-19 public health emergency.
Find the application at www.boco.org/EmergencyReliefGrant.
Businesses in good standing that have registered their business’ headquarters in the unincorporated area of Boulder County (including Jamestown, Ward, and Niwot) and with less than 50 employees are encouraged to apply. The application opens on May 8 and all applications must be received by May 18 at 11:59 p.m.
Grants will be awarded in fixed amounts of $2,500, $5,000, or $7,500. The funds are intended to help businesses cover near-term expenses in the areas of business rent or mortgage, utilities, payroll, or other essential operating costs. The hope is that this money will provide short-term financial relief while businesses pursue other relief options. Applying for this grant funding must be one component of a larger strategy for a business’s recovery from the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic and is not intended to be a sole source of aid.
Grant awards will be determined at the discretion of the county based on the eligibility criteria described below and are subject to funding availability. Grant awardees will be selected and notified on May 29. Funding for this grant program is limited and submitting an application is not a guarantee of a grant award.
Many municipalities within Boulder County have already developed or are considering relief funds for small businesses within their respective jurisdictions. Business owners with businesses in another Boulder County city or town should contact the municipality for more information.
For additional support available to individuals and families in Boulder County, please visit www.boco.org/COVID-19Resources.
For additional support for small businesses from the federal and state government and from other sources, please visit the Boulder Small Business Development Center and Colorado’s Office of Economic Development and International Trade.
For questions regarding this application, please email economicrecovery@bouldercounty.org.
Eligibility Criteria & Other Information:

The business must operate in unincorporated Boulder County (Niwot included), Ward, or Jamestown.
The business was in operation as of March 10, 2020 (Colorado emergency declaration).
Business is “current” on all accounts with the county and state.
Business employed 50 or fewer employees as of March 10, 2020.
The business is a for-profit business. Non-profit organizations may be eligible funds from:

Boulder County Community Foundation
Help Colorado Now



An advisory committee will be appointed by the Boulder County Board of County Commissioners to oversee this funding process. Funding priority will be determined based on applicant need and a clear indication of COVID-19 impact to the business. Incomplete applications, or applications submitted after that deadline date/time will not be considered.
Submission of an application is no assurance that the grant will be awarded, in whole or in part. Receipt of funds under this grant program, if and as awarded, may impact the amount of other funding offered or awarded by other entities. The applicant assumes such risk. Applicants should not seek grant funding for an item or expense for which they plan to seek support from another source, e.g., SBA funding resources like the PPP or EIDL programs.













Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage












Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-planning-commission-agenda-for-may-20-2020/





May 7, 2020




Boulder County Planning Commission agenda for May 20, 2020

Planning Commission public meeting will be held virtually starting at 1:30 p.m.





Boulder County, Colo. - The next meeting of the Boulder County Planning Commission will be Wed., May 20, 2020, beginning at 1:30 p.m. View the meeting agenda.
DUE TO COVID-19 CONCERNS AND SINCE MOST BOULDER COUNTY OFFICES ARE CLOSED THROUGH MAY 31, THIS MEETING WILL BE HELD VIRTUALLY. SIGN-UP TO RECEIVE INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW PARTICIPATE IN THE VIRTUAL MEETING ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION WEBPAGE: www.boco.org/PC
There will be opportunity to remotely provide public comment on the subject dockets during the respective virtual Public Hearing portions for each item. Written comments for these dockets may be submitted by emailing planner@bouldercounty.org and referencing the docket number in the subject of the email. Call 303-441-3930 or email for more information.
Agenda items include:
Call to Order
Roll Call
Approval of Minutes/Miscellaneous Business
Items:


Public Hearing: Docket SI-18-0003 City of Boulder - Boulder Interceptor Sewer RelocationRequest: Areas and Activities of State Interest (1041) review for the relocation and replacement of the City of Boulder sewer interceptor line. The project includes replacing an existing 42 inch diameter concrete pipe with a 54-to 66-inch pipe to increase capacity and to relocate the line to an area less susceptible to flood damage and erosion.Location: 4045 and 4049 N. 75th St. (146313300002), 3893 N. 75th St. (146313300005, 146314000030), 6936 Jay Rd. (146314000040), 0 RR (146322009001), 5823 Valmont Rd. (146322300003), 0 Valmont Rd. (146322300015), 6005 Valmont Rd. (146322400011), 5973 and 3131 Indian Rd. (146322400014), 3180 61st St. (146322400021), 3152 Indian Rd. (146322400028), 3262 N. 61st St. (146322400032, 146322400033), 0 Valmont Dr. (146323000001), 6405 Valmont Rd. (146323000006), 3897 N. 75th St. (146324000008), 0 N. 5th St. (146324000009), & 5880 Butte Mill Rd. (146327000003), 6017 Valmont Rd. (146322400012), 6025 Valmont Rd. (146322400013), 5987 Valmont Rd. (146322400029), 6033 Valmont Rd. (146322400034), 6095 Valmont Rd (146322400038), 6327 Valmont Rd. (146323000017), 6379 Valmont Rd (146323000030), 6379 Valmont Rd. (146323000031), and 6423 Valmont Rd. (146323000032), near the intersection of Stazio Drive and Valmont Road continuing northeast to approximately 1,500 feet south of the intersection of Jay Road and Carter Trail, in Sections 13, 14, 22, 23, 24, and 27, Township 1N, Range 70W.Zoning: Agricultural (A), General Industrial (GI), Light Industrial (LI), Manufactured Home (MH), Rural Residential (RR), Suburban Residential (SR) Zoning DistrictsApplicant: Cole Sigmon, City of BoulderPotentially Affected Property Owners: City of Boulder, County of Boulder, Daniel J. & Cindy Lisco, Regional Transportation District, Cullen Elizabeth, Indian Road Partners Ltd, Loveland Ready Mix Concrete Inc., Hugh & Lee Ann McGinty Revocable Trust, Valmont Community United Presbyterian Church, State of Colorado, Western Disposal, Inc., Hogan Keeter LLC, Gail Bishop, Lisa Elaine Holmquest, Steve Dunn & Lynn Rodenhizer, Veronica Ibarra, Butte Blacksmith Llc, John R Botterill Jr & Jan M Houck, Valmont Properties Llc, Harley I Jr & Joy E Keeter , Benjamin C & Mary Kay Keeter.Agent: Amber Dedus, Burns & McDonnell Engineering Company Inc.Staff Planner: Sean GambrelAction Requested: Recommendation to Board of County CommissionersPublic testimony will be taken


Public Hearing: Docket V-20-0002 Ryan VacationRequest: Request to vacate a portion of the Eastview Drive platted right-of-way, increasing the lot size from 0.88 acres to approximately 0.92 acres.Location: At 1375 Eastview Drive, Lot 45 Crestmoor, located on the north end of Eastview Drive, approximately 250 feet from its intersection with Crestmoor Drive, in Section 35, Township 1N, Range 70W.Zoning: Estate ResidentialApplicant/Property Owner: Daniel P. RyanAction Requested: Recommendation to Board of County CommissionersStaff Planner: Jean (Raini) OttPublic testimony will be taken


Public Hearing: Docket V-20-0003 Walter VacationRequest: Request to vacate the Hill Street right-of-way east of Lot 5, Block 9 and west of Grove Street.Location: 350 Gold Run Street, 351 & 391 Grove Street, and Parcel No. 145912009001, located south of Gold Run Street and on the west side of Grove Street, Lots 1-5, Block 9 and Lot 1, Block 17 of the Gold Hill Townsite in Section 12, Township 1N, Range 72W.Zoning: Historic (H)Applicants/Property Owners: Robert Dale and Lynne Yvonne WalterAction Requested: Recommendation to Board of County CommissionersStaff Planner: Jean (Raini) OttPublic testimony will be taken


Public Hearing: Docket BCCP-20-0001 Geologic Hazard Mapping-Related AmendmentsThe Community Planning & Permitting Department is updating the Geology Element of the Boulder County Comprehensive Plan (BCCP) to incorporate improved geologic hazard and constraint mapping that represents the best available data on a range of geologic hazard features present in the county. The mapping was prepared with grant funds following the 2013 extreme rain event. That event changed the landscape, making some areas more susceptible to geologic hazards, and it increased awareness of the importance of understanding the geologic hazards and constraints present in the county. The proposed geologic hazard and constraint mapping will help ensure that properties are developed in a manner that addresses those risks. Minor revisions to the Geology Element of the BCCP also include updates to the definitions and policy sections of the element and a new guidelines table and map for providing further guidance when reviewing development on properties with potential geologic hazards. Final revisions to the Geology Element incorporate feedback obtained from public hearings held by Planning Commission and the Board of County Commissioners on February 19, 2020 and March 31, 2020 respectively.Action Requested: DecisionStaff Planner: Chad EndicottPublic testimony will be taken


Public Hearing: Docket BCCP-20-0002 Document Template Conversion-Related AmendmentsThe Community Planning & Permitting Department has converted the Boulder County Comprehensive Plan (BCCP) document to a new graphic template to update the look and feel of the document and provide design consistency. Along with the graphics refresh, amendments to the document Introduction and overall organization are proposed. Final revisions to BCCP-20-0002 incorporate feedback obtained from public hearings held by Planning Commission and the Board of County Commissioners on February 19, 2020 and March 31, 2020 respectively.Action Requested: DecisionStaff Planner: Molly MarcucilliPublic testimony will be taken


Adjournment.
Staff reports will be posted to the docket webpages linked above on May 13.
Current and recent Planning Commission agendas, minutes, and archived video recordings are available on the Planning Commission webpage.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-residents-encouraged-to-apply-for-help-during-covid-19/





May 7, 2020




Boulder County Residents Encouraged to Apply for Help During COVID-19

Rent, food, and child care assistance, health coverage, and other critical financial help available now





Boulder County, Colo. -- As the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic continue to impact the community, the Boulder County Department of Housing & Human Services is urging residents to sign up for supports and benefits that are available now. Food, financial, and child care assistance, help with housing and rent, unemployment benefits and business loans, free or reduced-cost health insurance, and more are available to many residents who have been affected by the virus outbreak.
“While we know we are in this for a while, we’ll recover faster as a community if we get the help we need now,” said Frank Alexander, Director of the Boulder County Department of Housing & Human Services. “Nearly $2 billion in benefits and supports has been made available for our neighbors and business and non-profit owners, and this help can be the difference between suffering and stabilizing, and between economic devastation and flattening the curve of disruption.”
Since the COVID-19 pandemic hit Colorado in earnest in mid-March, Boulder County Housing and Human Services has received and responded to more than 22,000 texts, 1,900 voicemails, and 1,200 emails from community members seeking help. Food, housing, financial, and child care assistance are the most commonly-sought supports.
“We thank our community for helping one another by staying at home and wearing face coverings to reduce the severity of this outbreak, and we are here to support the whole community with the benefits and programs that are there for that very purpose,” said Boulder County Commissioner Deb Gardner. “We really are all in this together, so if each of us accesses the supports we need today, we’ll emerge from this stronger and more resilient.”
Boulder County residents can apply for unemployment benefits through the state’s streamlined process at www.colorado.gov and get help filing from Workforce Boulder County by calling 720-776-0822.
Boulder County Housing & Human Services has also set up a Housing Help Line and is boosting funding available for residents who have been impacted by COVID-19 and are seeking financial support to pay their rent or get other housing assistance. Boulder County residents needing assistance with covering housing rental costs can call 303-441-1206 and leave a detailed message about the help they need. A housing specialist will then return the call as soon as possible. In addition to rental assistance, other housing help includes landlord-tenant mediation, financial coaching, mortgage payment suspension and loan modification for homeowners and landlords, and more. Comprehensive information on housing resources for those impacted by COVID-19 is available at www.boco.org/COVID-19Housing.
An evictions moratorium is currently in place through May 31. Housing providers cannot remove tenants or their belongings, change the locks on rental properties, or shut off utilities without first going through the evictions process, which is not an option at this time. It is essential for landlords and tenants to work together to find a compromise that works for both parties.
Residents can also get a range of supports by visiting the Family Resource Centers in Boulder County, which include Sister Carmen Community Center in Lafayette (303-665-4342), Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA) in Boulder (303-442-3042), and OUR Center in Longmont (303-772-5529). These non-profit community partners provide financial assistance for rent and utilities, mortgage support, free food boxes or prepared meals, and much more.
“People from all walks of life have been hit hard by COVID-19, and no one should hesitate to get help to weather this and recover from it, so reach out to any of us as soon as you can,” said Suzanne Crawford, CEO of Sister Carmen Community Center. “It’s also important to encourage your friends, family, and neighbors to get the supports they need, and to be sure you’re checking in on those you know and offering help.”
General resource information, including child care and other financial assistance, unemployment and employment resources, health coverage, loans, grants, and other help for businesses and non-profits, mental and emotional health supports, and how to volunteer or donate is available at www.boco.org/COVID-19Resources. There are several community partners -including the county’s school districts- providing or delivering both prepared food and groceries to residents who have difficulty leaving home or who are most vulnerable to COVID-19. These resources can be found at www.boco.org/COVID-19FoodAssistance.
For the health and safety of staff and visitors during COVID-19, Boulder County Housing and Human Services offices are closed to the public through May 31. BCDHHS staff are providing services remotely and encourage residents to contact them to apply for benefits, ask questions, and get other supports. Visit www.boco.org/COVID-19ContactHHS to find out how to get in touch.
More about Boulder County Housing & Human Services
The Boulder County Department of Housing & Human Services is a 500-person integrated services delivery organization that is focused on supporting whole families and individuals through a Two-Generation, Social Determinants of Health approach. Over an average 12 months during typical times, BCDHHS serves more than 90,000 distinct clients with a wide range of wrap-around services, including food, housing, health coverage, child care, safety, education and skill building, parenting supports and much more. Follow Boulder County Housing & Human Services on Facebook and visit the website to learn more about BCDHHS’ prevention-based wrap-around community supports and services.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/resource-conservation-division-launches-p3-pesticides-campaign/




 


May 7, 2020

Contact: 720-564-2220
resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org



Resource Conservation Division launches P3 Pesticides Campaign

This campaign aims to inspire awareness of alternate pest management methods and to reduce the use of pesticides and herbicides in homes.
Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Resource Conservation Division’s Hazardous Materials Management Facility received more than 54,000 pounds of pesticides and herbicides in 2019, costing the county more than $95,000 in disposal costs. In addition to the economic cost, these chemicals can also have negative impacts to the environment and our safety when used improperly.
This P3 Pesticides Campaign aims to inspire awareness of alternate pest management methods, reduce the use of pesticides and herbicides in homes, and promote safe pest and weed management.  
Residents can reduce use with alternative pest management methods. This can be achieved by starting gardens off with a healthy foundation and using pesticides and herbicides as a last resort.
The Resource Conservation Division will be sharing tips on:

Purchasing only what you need and prevent over-buying.
Maintaining a chemical-free lawn and garden.
Ways to prevent pests in your home.
Safe storage reminders for pesticides for a healthy home environment. 

Visit www.boco.org/pesticides for more information and handouts and follow Boulder County Resource Conservation Division on Facebook for tips to reduce use of pesticides.






For more information, visit www.BoulderCountyRecycles.org, or contact 720-564-2220 or resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/clinica-family-health-offers-covid-19-testing-to-the-general-public/




 


May 4, 2020




Clinica Family Health Offers COVID-19 Testing to the General Public

Lafayette, CO – In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Clinica Family Health and Boulder County Public Health are partnering to offer testing for novel coronavirus to the general public experiencing symptoms of COVID-19. Testing is available via drive-through clinic at Clinica’s Lafayette facility at 1735 S. Public Road, Monday-Friday, 9a.m. to noon, or until daily testing supplies run out.
Testing is available to anyone who may is currently experiencing coronavirus-type symptoms (fever, cough, shortness of breath) and meets the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment’s (CDPHE) criteria for testing:

Health care workers with flu-like symptoms
Individuals with flu-like symptoms who are living in residential settings such as a homeless shelter
Individuals older than 65 with symptoms
Individuals with underlying conditions with symptoms
First responders with symptoms
Critical infrastructure workers with symptoms
People with symptoms who work with vulnerable populations or in group residential settings
Other individuals with symptoms

A member of the Clinica care team will assess each individual based on the CDPHE criteria for appropriateness for testing. A doctor’s order is not needed to get tested. Anyone without flu-like symptoms will be provided information about COVID-19, but will not be tested. Spanish-speaking staff are available.
“Foremost, Clinica is a community health center, and right now – during this pandemic – we want to be here for our community,” said Simon Smith, Clinica’s president and CEO. “COVID-19 is creating a difficult health care environment. It is impacting people’s physical health, mental health and financial stability. Our staff are extremely skilled at providing exceptional care during high-stress situations like this.”
Broad testing is necessary to control the spread of COVID-19. Testing leads to quick identification of people with the illness, quick care for those people, and immediate isolation to prevent spread of the disease. Early testing also helps to identify anyone who was in close contact (within 6 feet for more than 10 minutes) with the infected person so that they too can quickly receive care and be separated from others to stop disease spread.
“We are so grateful for Clinica and the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment’s partnership to make testing more available here in Boulder County. Testing is critical to moving forward and we are pleased that supplies are becoming more available,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health executive director. “One thing that’s important to remember is that as testing increases, we will see more people test positive for COVID-19. Testing has been very limited and we’ve known the disease is circulating in the community. As we ease restrictions it will be critically important that we follow social distancing guidelines, wear masks when we cannot easily maintain 6 feet distance, wash our hands frequently, and avoid touching our faces. Testing like Clinica is providing will be a vital piece of tracking and tracing, which will help us control the virus and save lives.”
Clinica staff will conduct the test while the individual remains in their vehicle. Staff will collect a sample of nasal secretions by inserting a swab into the person’s nostril. The sample will be sent to a lab for testing and Clinica staff will follow up with each person when the results come back.
While people do not need an appointment for a test, they do need to bring identification and insurance information if they have it. Anyone wanting a test will be asked to provide basic information about their symptoms as well as contact information to follow up on test results. Alternately, people can go to www.clinica.org and download the form they will need to complete and bring it to the testing site.
Clinica is waiving all co-payments but will bill an individual’s insurance provider for the test. Clinica patients without insurance will be charged a flat fee of $86.94; new patients will be charged $152.97. Clinica offers discount programs for people without insurance and will work with individuals who need help covering the cost of testing.
Clinica expects to have supplies to perform 50-75 tests each day. If demand is high, testing might end earlier than scheduled. Additional information about COVID-19 and Clinica’s services are available at www.clinica.org. Information about COVID-19 illness and recovery among Boulder County residents, visit www.boco.org/covid19illnessrecovery.
-###-
Contact for more information:
Susan Wortman, Vice President of Development
Clinica Family Health (via email)
303.665.3036, x1640
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-offers-new-online-caregiver-program-beginning-in-may/




 


May 4, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging Offers New Online Caregiver Program Beginning in May

New pilot program is now open for registrations
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging invites interested caregivers to participate in the upcoming class, “Hero's Journey of the Caregiver.” This program is an eight-hour weekly course spanning four weeks and will begin this May. The course is intended for informal and family caregivers of older adults and will focus on providing participants with tools to help ensure that they thrive, not just survive, during caregiving.
The “Hero's Journey of the Caregiver” course is inspired by the work of Joseph Campbell, a scholar who popularized various theories on hero myth narratives. Using a multi-media approach (video clips, art, poetry, self-reflection, and discussion all online via video conferencing), the course will offer opportunities for the inner hero to show up in caregiving and ultimately move through obstacles on this journey. There are two ongoing classes and time options available. Registrants can select to attend one of the following classes:

Tuesdays, May 19 to June 9, 2020 from 10 a.m.- noon
Thursdays, May 21 to June 11, 2020 from 6-8 p.m.

This program is open to Boulder County residents providing care for a relative, partner, or friend who is age 60 or over, or of any age if the person has dementia. There is no charge for the course, but donations are appreciated. Video conferencing applications and internet will be required for the course.
For more information or to register for the course, please contact Program Manager Rebekah Van Sweden at rvansweden@bouldercounty.org or by calling 303-441-3945. Participants will be required to provide additional eligibility details and to complete a CIA registration form to participate. 
 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/increasing-open-space-visitation-leading-to-instances-of-trail-natural-resource-damage/




 


April 30, 2020




Increasing open space visitation leading to instances of trail & natural resource damage

Open space agencies remind visitors to practice responsible recreation and stay close to home.
Boulder County, Colo. - Colorado Front Range parks and open space agencies are seeing instances of trail and natural resource damage as visitation to area public lands has increased over the last month.
With high visitation likely to continue and declining tax revenue likely to decrease overall open space maintenance efforts, a group of Front Range open space agencies want to remind Coloradans to practice responsible recreation to help protect each other and our shared public lands. They also continue to stress that open space visitors need to maintain at least 6 feet of physical distance and wear face coverings while recreating on open space lands.
Recently, rangers, ecologists, and staff members with Boulder County Parks & Open Space, City of Boulder Open Space and Mountain Parks, Denver Parks and Recreation Mountain Parks, and Jefferson County Open Space have seen:


Trail widening and plant damage by visitors walking around muddy trail areas. While open space agencies understand visitors may need to temporarily step off trail to maintain physical distance, they encourage everyone to “keep off the grass and get muddy” and stay in the middle of muddy trails if no one else is around. If visitors need to maintain physical distance on narrow trails, they should step onto a rock or a bare spot – if possible – to let others pass, then step back on the trail. They should avoid stepping on vegetation and politely announce themselves if they need to pass others.

Disturbances to sensitive habitat areas from visitors illegally entering wildlife closures and other sensitive areas closed to the public. Open space rangers are encountering more people in wildlife closures and other sensitive closed areas, which can cause significant disturbances to local wildlife. While recreation is an essential component of these open space programs, wildlife habitat protection is also a critical function. The public is reminded to stay out of wildlife closure areas and properties closed to the public, which are marked with signs. Rangers with agencies that implement wildlife closures will be strictly enforcing closure violations.

Visitors walking off designated trails. Open space trail staff members work with wildlife and plant ecologists to create enjoyable visitor experiences and help protect sensitive habitats. Currently, Boulder County, the City of Boulder, City and County of Denver, and Jefferson County maintain over 560 miles of designated open space trails. However, in recent weeks, many visitors have walked off designated trails and have created unmaintained “social” trails that can reduce – or fragment – large habitat areas that many wildlife species need to thrive. The agencies ask all visitors to remain on designated trails.

While the open space agencies have instituted several management actions to address crowding, such as temporary closures at crowded trailheads and full parking lots, they may implement additional closures to mitigate trail and natural resource damage. The parks and open space agencies request the cooperation of the public in helping them to maintain shared public lands. To reduce the likelihood of trail closures, the agencies request visitors:

Wear a face covering AND maintain six feet of physical distance while on open space trails.
Stay as close to home as possible and to avoid unnecessary travel. If visitors encounter a full or crowded area, they should move on to another area.
Park only in designated parking areas.
Visit open space areas in groups of four or fewer people. Larger groups can impede traffic on area trails and make it difficult for people to maintain social distance.
Walk through the mud and keep off the vegetation when stepping off trail is necessary.
Adhere to dog regulations for specific trails, pick up after their dogs, and remove their trash.
Stay out of wildlife closure areas and other areas closed to the public.
Know their limits and not take any risks to help protect first responders.

The agencies also request that visitors plan their recreation visits carefully. Designated open space trail maps and closure areas are available on these websites:

Boulder County
City of Boulder
Jefferson County
City and County of Denver








Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/applications-for-tungsten-village-affordable-homes-in-nederland-accepted-may-7/





April 30, 2020




Applications for Tungsten Village Affordable Homes in Nederland will be accepted beginning May 7

Neighborhood of 26 Affordable Homes in Nederland features 1-, 2-, and 3-bedroom options





Boulder County, Colo. -- The Boulder County Housing Authority (BCHA) will begin accepting online rental applications for the Tungsten Village neighborhood of affordable homes in Nederland on Thursday, May 7 at 9 a.m. To help ensure the safety of both applicants and staff during the COVID-19 outbreak, the BCHA team will offer a fully virtual rental application process for Tungsten Village.
“Home is the foundation of health and wellness for our community,” said Norrie Boyd, Deputy Director of Boulder County Housing Authority. “So many members of our community are unnecessarily vulnerable during this pandemic because they lack access to a safe, stable, affordable home. Now, more than ever, we have to prioritize housing affordability as a vital community support and value the role a safe home plays in keeping our neighbors healthy and thriving.”
The Tungsten Village application, which will be available via www.TungstenVillage.org, takes approximately 15 minutes to complete. Once received, applications will be screened in the order received in early summer, and applicants will then be contacted. Anyone who needs additional assistance to participate fully in the application process should call (720) 564-2267 and select option 1.
information about Tungsten Village
In partnership with the Town of Nederland, the Boulder County Housing Authority (BCHA) expects to complete construction of Tungsten Village in summer 2020, with move-ins likely in September. This new building, owned, managed and maintained by BCHA, is located at 333 State Highway 72, a few blocks northwest of downtown Nederland. Tungsten Village will provide 26 homes affordable to residents with low and moderate income.
“Many of our long-term residents and essential service providers are finding it harder to live and work in Nederland,” said Dennis Whalen, Director of the Nederland Food Pantry and a member of the Peak to Peak Housing and Human Services Alliance. “This town is not only unique and beautiful—it’s also home to seniors on fixed incomes and working families—including single parents and their children, teachers, first responders, and those living with disabilities. Tungsten Village will provide an important affordable option for these neighbors to be able to stay here and continue to be part of the fabric our community.”
Nederland, Colorado is a small mountain community that was deeply affected by the historic 2013 Flood in Boulder County. This natural disaster significantly reduced Nederland’s supply of affordable homes, and—coupled with the increasing pressures from housing costs within the Boulder County market—has contributed to Nederland residents’ struggle for stable, affordable housing.
As a result of reduced housing stock and rising area rents, over 70% of town residents are housing-cost-burdened, meaning they spend over a third of their income on rent or mortgage. Many residents are unable to afford basic necessities: nearly one-quarter of Nederland area residents receive food assistance and over half receive health benefits through the Boulder County Department of Health & Human Services (BCDHHS). High housing costs are also affecting local businesses, schools, and emergency service providers, which are struggling to find and keep staff to serve the mountain community.







Tungsten Village construction will be completed in summer 2020.

More information about Tungsten Village—including eligibility requirements, rent amounts, other specifics about the homes, and the link to the online rental application—is available at www.TungstenVillage.org. For additional information, contact Mackenzie Sehlke, Boulder County Housing and Human Services, 720-467-1975.






COVID-19 Impacts on Housing
BCDHHS is working with federal, state and local partners to respond to the unprecedented impacts of COVID-19. Some rental assistance is available in the community for those impacted by COVID-19. Anyone seeking help paying for rent can call the Boulder County Housing Helpline at 303-441-1206 and leave a detailed message. A housing specialist will then return the call in 1 to 2 business days (delays are due to high call volume at this time). Additional information is available at www.boco.org/COVID-19Housing.
“Everyone in the community who needs help—parents with young kids, older adults living alone, single parents, neighbors—should apply for unemployment and medical benefits, food, financial, and child care assistance, and rental and mortgage assistance,” said BCDHHS Director Frank Alexander. “These benefits are here to help you now, so please reach out for assistance.”
Learn more about how to access the full range of available supports at www.boco.org/COVID-19Resources and see the ways to contact BCDHHS during COVID-19 at www.boco.org/COVID-19ContactHHS.
Follow Boulder County Housing and Human Services on Facebook or visit our website to learn more about our prevention-based wrap-around community supports and services.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/assessor-to-mail-property-appraisal-information-for-new-2020-construction-may-1/





April 29, 2020




Boulder County Assessor to mail property appraisal information for new construction – May 1

2020 property value notices will be mailed to owners of new construction and remodels; Annual appeals period runs from May 1 to June 1
Boulder County, Colo. - On May 1, the Boulder County Assessor’s Office will mail Notices of Value (NOVs) to owners whose properties have experienced a change in value over the past year due to the creation of a new lot or subdivision, new construction, an addition. remodel or other physical changes to an existing property, or to new owners who did not receive a tax bill in 2020.
The NOVs include customized property information such as the legal description, property description, and the value of the property (current and prior).
Real property value in Colorado is determined on a two-year cycle, with the main reappraisal period taking place in odd years. County assessors are responsible in even years for appraising the real property value of new construction and properties that undergo changes.
By Colorado law, the 2020 real property value is based on June 30, 2018 market data. (Real property values for the 2021 reappraisal will be based on market data as of June 30, 2020, absent of any legislative changes.)
Property Value Appeals
From May 1 through June 1, an owner may protest the real property value or the classification established by the Assessor. This is the taxpayer's opportunity to correct values based on misclassifications, errors in property descriptions, or other discrepancies that may exist in the property records. This period is open to all property owners in the county and is not limited to new construction and remodels only.
All appeals must be filed by June 1. The easiest way to file an appeal is through the online application at www.boco.org/AssessorAppeals.
Note about COVID-19 impacts
County Assessors in the State of Colorado recognize the impacts COVID 19 has had on Colorado’s economy this year; however, assessors do not have the authority to adjust the current (2020) market value. The Colorado Assessor’s Association is currently working with Colorado public officials to help find a way to address these issues The Assessor’s Office urges you to contact your local state representatives regarding the COVID-19 pandemic. Your local state legislators can be found on this website: https://leg.colorado.gov/find-my-legislator.
“We cannot accept appeals based on taxes or effects on property value due to the present pandemic crisis. As it stands now, the economic impacts of the current pandemic will be addressed in the 2021 revaluation of all real property,” said Cynthia Braddock, Boulder County Assessor.
“We are held to the valuation process established in the State Constitution and statutes that limit us from considering these impacts” Braddock added.






Example of a new construction home.
How to contact our office
Due to the COVID-19 Health Emergency, the Boulder County Courthouse is closed to the public. To schedule a phone call with Assessor’s Office staff, please use our online scheduling tool at www.boco.org/AssessorAppeals or call 303-441-3530.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/public-health-exec-director-to-discuss-status-of-covid-19-response-in-boulder-county/




 


April 27, 2020




Boulder County Public Health Executive Director to Discuss Status of the COVID-19 Response in Boulder County

Join the Facebook live event on Tuesday, April 28, at 5 p.m. Please submit questions at healthinfo@bouldercounty.org or by posting them to the Facebook Event.
(Boulder County, Colo.) - Along with other local public health agencies in the region, Boulder County Public Health has extended the current Colorado Stay-At-Home order through May 8 in order to develop clear strategies and guidelines for preventing a surge of COVID-19 cases when our community moves to the “safer-at-home” phase.
Boulder County has not met the conditions that need to be in place to make sure the spread of COVID-19 doesn’t resurge after stay-at-home restrictions are eased.
Boulder County Public Health executive director, Jeff Zayach, will discuss what was considered in the decision to extend the state order and the focus for the coming weeks. Boulder County Housing and Human Services executive director, Frank Alexander will share details about services and supports available to residents.

When:   Tuesday, April 28, 2020, 5 p.m.
Where: Facebook.com/bouldercountypublichealth
Presenters:
-Jeff Zayach, MS, Boulder County Public Health executive director
-Chris Urbina, MD, Boulder County Public Health medical officer
-Frank Alexander, MPA, Boulder County Housing and Human Services department executive director

Please submit questions at healthinfo@bouldercounty.org or by posting them to the Facebook Event.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/gradual-reopening-of-businesses-may-look-different-across-metro-denver/





April 23, 2020




Gradual reopening of businesses may look different across Metro Denver

Increasing numbers of residents with COVID-19 illness may delay moving to next phase 
Boulder County, CO — The statewide Stay-at-Home Order is set to expire on Sunday, April 26 and Governor Polis has directed local public health officials to implement data-informed strategies at the local level that best meets the needs of local communities. Boulder County Public Health, Broomfield Public Health and Environment, Jefferson County Public Health, Denver Public Health and Environment, and Tri-County Health Department are working together to develop those strategies.
“While we want to minimize confusion for our residents, the next phase of protecting the community could look different for different areas, based on the number of COVID-19 cases in that specific area,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health executive director. “In some parts of the state COVID-19 cases are not increasing and it makes sense for them to move to the Governor’s Safer at Home phase, but in densely populated counties in the metro area, moving to the next phase too soon could cause additional illness and death, and even greater impacts on our economy.”
We are studying current trends and working with our local business community to prepare clear guidance for each sector outlined in the Governor’s Safer at Home phase. We are also reviewing the need to extend the Stay-At-Home order to May 8, 2020 for jurisdictions that are still experiencing high numbers of people sick with COVID-19, while allowing non-essential businesses to begin curbside delivery/pick-up. A decision will be made by Sunday, April 26 about what steps will be taken to begin to slowly reopen our local businesses.
Regardless of whether the Stay-At-Home orders are extended, we must all continue to follow social distancing guidelines, stay at home as much as possible, wear a face covering, and practicing abundant personal hygiene and cleanliness to keep our communities healthy and economically viable.
Updates about next steps will be shared by press release, as well as on the Boulder County Public Health Facebook and Twitter social media pages and COVID-19 website at www.boco.org/covid-19.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/community-planning-permitting-department-now-accepting-applications-online/




 


April 22, 2020




Community Planning & Permitting Department Now Accepting Applications Online

Online submittals now available for Planning Applications and Building Permits





Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Community Planning & Permitting Department (CPP) is excited to announce that online applications for both Planning Reviews and Building Permits are now available.
An online account will be required in order to apply. Instructions on how to register for an account can be found at www.boco.org/CPP-application-submittal. The online system will also allow for payment of deposits and fees.
Many types of planning applications (such as Site Plan Review and other current planning reviews) are accepted pursuant to dates on a submittal schedule. For those projects, please hold off on submitting your application online until you have been given authorization from CPP. Since all submittal dates on the schedule have shifted as we established remote functionality, CPP will contact applicants to notify them of their new submittal date in advance of their turn. Applications will continue to be processed in the order they are on the submittal schedule.
Building Permits and Planning Applications for Building Lot Determinations, Transferrable Development Credits (TDC), new Telecommunication Facilities, and SPRW for Renewable Energy Systems (i.e., ground-mounted solar systems) may be submitted online at any time.
Please note, these applications are for planning and building in the unincorporated areas of Boulder County, not in cities or towns. See municipality contacts within Boulder County for information on cities and towns.
As staff works to process these applications as efficiently as possible, Building Permit processing timeframes are not available at this time; however, building permit issuance status is available online. Please be aware that typical timelines for all reviews may need to be modified, given circumstances related to COVID-19. For more details, see the Notice of Emergency Actions.
As a reminder: The Boulder County Community Planning & Permitting office at 2045 13th St., Boulder is CLOSED to the public through at least June 1. When the office does reopen, the county will take measures to protect staff and the public. Some of those measures may include limiting staff and public access to the building, adjusting hours, and continuing to work remotely when possible. Planning pre-application conferences will be held via telephone or video conference.
Applications that are currently in process will continue to be reviewed remotely. The department looks forward to implementing these measures and further developing systems that will better serve applicants now and beyond this event.
For more information, call 303-441-3930 or email the appropriate department team:

Building Code & Building Plan Review: building@bouldercounty.org
Building Permits & Contractor License Applications: ezbp@bouldercounty.org
Building Inspections: buildinginspectors@bouldercounty.org
Code Compliance / Zoning Enforcement: codecompliance@bouldercounty.org
Front Desk: landusefrontdesk@bouldercounty.org
Floodplain Permits: floodplainadmin@bouldercounty.org
Liquor Licensing: liquorlicensing@bouldercounty.org
Marijuana Licensing: marijuanalicensing@bouldercounty.org
Planning / Zoning: planner@bouldercounty.org
Special Events: se@bouldercounty.org
Transportation Development Review: transdevreview@bouldercounty.org
Transportation Multimodal Planning: transportationplanning@bouldercounty.org

More information is available at www.boco.org/CPP. The latest Boulder County information on COVID-19 is posted at www.boco.org/COVID-19.
The Community Planning & Permitting Department thanks you for your adaptability in these extraordinary times.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/commissioners-announce-2020-volunteer-enrichment-awards-during-national-volunteer-week/




 


April 21, 2020




Commissioners announce 2020 Volunteer Enrichment Awards during National Volunteer Week

$8,000 total awarded to 11 different programs
Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Commissioners approved a proclamation on April 21, proclaiming National Volunteer Week in Boulder County to be April 19-25. The proclamation comes with a celebration of the important role volunteers play in the community which includes awarding $8,000 to 11 volunteer program proposals. On an annual basis, Boulder County invites volunteers from county government programs to apply for funding to support a program.
Proposals for the awards can be for various needs to enrich an existing volunteer program. Examples can include funding for supplies, or training dollars to increase volunteers’ skills. This awards program is a way to encourage innovation, strengthen the county’s volunteer programs, and come together on an annual basis to celebrate volunteerism. The volunteer award recipients for this year are:

Laurie Lee: Community Services Department - Community Justice Services (CJS) Serving under the Jail Education and Transition Program (JET), Lauri coordinates Mindfulness and Path to Freedom programs at the Boulder County Jail. These meditation and emotional intelligence programs help incarcerated individuals gain knowledge, awareness, and skills which promote their successful community re-entry and reduce recidivism. Funds will be used to purchase zabutan mats, pillows, and white noise makers for these programs, which will be used by seven instructors and 20-25 inmates per week.
Abigail Nguyen: Community Services Department - Community Justice Services (CJS) Juvenile Assessment Center (JAC) volunteers create safe, educational, and positive environments for the 500+ juveniles who pass through the JAC each year. The funds awarded for this program will be used to purchase art supplies, coloring books, and 3D puzzles, which will contribute to the JAC’s therapeutic setting and provide mental stimulation and healthy outlets for the expression of emotions.
Dolores Sargent: District Attorney’s Office - Community Protection Division (CPD) Community Protection volunteers provide information and resources to the public related to telephone and online fraud, and financial abuse and exploitation. The awarded Smart Voice Simultaneous Translator will enable CPD volunteers to serve non-English speaking community members in real time using this two-way translation device. The device translates Spanish and seven other languages, has a camera that translates printed text, and can be used on the phone or in-person.
Juliana Todeschi: Housing & Human Services Department - Casa de la Esperanza Casa de la Esperanza is a 32-unit residential community for agricultural workers. The funds for this proposal will be used to purchase ACT & SAT books, practice tests, and materials for the Casa de la Esperanza Learning Center to launch a higher education exploration and prep program for high school-aged Casa students. The program is aimed at fostering excellence and self-empowerment among participants, many of whom are first-generation Americans from migrant families, and whose parents did not attend college.
Nicole Hubert: Housing & Human Services Department - Casa de la Esperanza Casa’s Learning Center does not currently have any programs dedicated to children ages birth to six years. This award will be used to purchase books and educational play items needed to launch an early intervention and development program for preschool-aged Casa children. The program will focus on developing cognitive, language, and social-emotional skills, and the materials purchased will remain a permanent part of the program’s resource library.
Rachel Findlay & Grazina Dagyte: Housing & Human Services Department - Casa de la Esperanza The Robotics Program, for kindergarten to 2nd graders, is a new addition to Casa's Robotics program. The goal of the program is to build confidence in creating, foster teamwork, and nurture excitement around learning. The awarded funds will be used to purchase a model rocket & engine kit and Lego volcano, castle, and technic kits. Using these kits will reinforce STEAM concepts and encourage participants to become tomorrow’s tech pioneers.
Carolyn Smith: Housing & Human Services Department - Case Management & Community Outreach (CMCO) Kestrel is a 55+ affordable housing site run by the Boulder County Housing Authority. The funds from this award will be used in the Kestrel Helping Hands program to purchase kits and supplies for making 108 No Sew Throw blankets. Helping Hands participants make blankets for donation to the Louisville Fire and Police Departments. First responders, in turn, provide these blankets to victims of trauma at fires, car accidents, children's services events, etc.
Brande Charnoff, Jenea DeQuasie, and Staci Anderson: Parks & Open Space Department, Extension - Boulder County 4-H Adult Leader’s Advisory Council The Boulder County 4-H Adult Leader’s Advisory Council provides a platform for 4-H leaders and adults to share ideas on programming, club management and overall 4-H program direction. This award will be used to purchase Sheep and Beef Livestock Learning Kits for use by 4-H members and volunteer leaders. These reusable kits provide professional, research-based information and activities, covering topics such as anatomy, breeds, conformation, medicine, and handling. The reusable kits will remain a permanent program resource for years to come.
Brande Charnoff: Parks & Open Space Department, Extension - Boulder County 4-H Adult Leader’s Advisory Council This award will be used to purchase sewing machines and supplies for the 4-H STEAM clothing program. Currently, Extension staff are borrowing sewing machines from other counties for the program. The addition of these items will help the program meet its STEAM education goals, including life skill development and volunteer engagement, and will give staff the ability to offer more programs and increase enrollment.
Carter Angel: Public Health Department - Child Health Promotion, Cooks Circle Program This program provides education and a support network for child care program cooks to improve menus and prepare and serve more nutritious foods to children in child care. This award will be used to purchase cooking mandolines and mandoline gloves, which Cooks Circle chefs can use at their child care facilities to prepare meals and snacks efficiently and in new ways that appeal to children. The mandolines and gloves will remain a part of their kitchens for many years. Additional funds will be used to purchase a Farm Tub (self-watering raised garden bed), which will teach children the process of growing vegetables from seed to harvest.
Catherine Murphy: Sheriff’s Office - Operations & Jail Divisions This award will used to purchase the books and workbooks needed to create a new women's Victim Impact program at the Boulder County Jail. Modeled after the existing 8-week men’s program, this 4-5 week program will be based on the “Houses of Healing” book and will be tailored to the needs of the female inmate population. The program will be aimed at reducing recidivism and will benefit the inmates, their families, jail staff, and the community.


For more information about Boulder County’s Volunteer program, please visit www.BoulderCountyVolunteers.org. Boulder County government has a range of one-time and ongoing volunteer opportunities depending on the area of interest.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/stay-on-trail-and-walk-through-mud-if-needed-step-off-to-maintain-physical-distance/




 


April 21, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Stay on trail and walk through mud. If needed, step off to maintain physical distance


City and county remind visitors to support open space rangers and protect plant vegetation

Boulder County, Colo. - The City of Boulder and Boulder County continue to remind community members to stay on open space trails and walk through mud as increasing visitation and off-trail traffic around muddy areas is leading to increased path widening and plant damage.
If visitors need to maintain physical distance on narrow trails both the city and the county request community members follow these guidelines:

Avoid stepping on vegetation. If possible, step onto a rock or a bare spot to let others pass, then step back on the trail.
Politely announce yourself if you need to pass others.
If no one else is around, “get muddy” and stay on muddy trails. Traveling off trail, whether hiking, running, or biking, can permanently damage vegetation and widen trails.

In recent days, both city and county open space rangers have seen increased instances of anger from visitors. Please support and protect rangers by following all rules and regulations, giving them 6 feet of physical distance and recognizing the challenges they and other first responders are facing during this challenging time.
City of Boulder Open Space and Mountain Parks and Boulder County Parks & Open Space are coordinating open space management efforts, including trail and trailhead closures. Both agencies have seen increased illegal parking and crowding in several areas, along with natural resource damage resulting from off-trail use. If this continues, open space trail closures may need to be considered.
City and county open space rangers as well as city parking officers will continue to increase enforcement to address illegal parking and crowding. If it’s essential to recreate, residents are asked stay as close to home as possible and avoid unnecessary travel. If community members encounter a full or crowded area, they should move on to another area. Open space visitors should also:

Know before they go. Check Boulder County’s boco.org/trails and the city’s interactive trail map to check the latest trail status for muddy conditions closures.
Remember to keep the “space” in open space. Maintain 6 feet of physical distance from people not in their household.
Wear face coverings. This includes hikers, trail runners, and bikers.
Pick up after their dogs and remove their trash.












Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/homeless-solutions-for-boulder-county-calls-for-volunteers-at-shelters-and-the-covid-19-recovery-center/




 


April 17, 2020




Homeless Solutions for Boulder County Calls for Volunteers at Shelters and the COVID-19 Recovery Center

Sign up to volunteer today in Boulder or Longmont





Boulder County, Colo. - Homeless Solutions for Boulder County (HSBC) - a coalition of multiple government entities including Boulder County, City of Boulder, City of Longmont, along with nonprofits Bridge House Path to Home, Homeless Outreach Providing Encouragement (HOPE), and Boulder Shelter for the Homeless - is seeking volunteers at multiple homeless shelter locations in Longmont and Boulder, and at the COVID-19 Recovery Center. 
There is a current need for volunteers to help with checking in clients, serving food, handing out bedding and shower essentials, monitoring common areas such as showers and parking lot areas, and aiding in health screens as needed. Shelters are staffed 24-7 and volunteer shifts are flexible for those interested in committing time.The four homeless shelters in Boulder County conduct daily screenings for clients amid COVID-19 concerns and identify individuals who require further care. 
On March 20, the COVID-19 Recovery Center (CRC) opened for unhoused individuals at the East Boulder Community Center to serve homeless individuals who appear to show symptoms of the virus and who will require further testing. The response team at the CRC works under the direction of the Emergency Operations Center for Boulder County. A call for volunteers at the CRC was made earlier this month. CRC receives technical support from local shelters, Mental Health Partners (MHP), the Medical Reserve Corps, and Boulder County Public Health.
Boulder County Public Health and HSBC are coordinating directly with homeless shelters and services on protocols regarding appropriate cleaning, housing individuals, and locations for individuals to recover from COVID-19. Additional protocols have been identified to decrease communal spread and identify symptomatic individuals early. All staff and volunteers will receive training and Personal Protective Equipment (gloves and masks) at the CRC adhering to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines. Staff and volunteers will remain at recommended distances from clients.
Community members who would like to volunteer at any one of the shelters or at the CRC can sign up at www.helpcoloradonow.org. Volunteers will be connected to Boulder County’s Volunteer Management team within the Boulder County Emergency Operations Center.
HSBC provides an innovative approach to homelessness in an integrated service system that combines a coordinated entry process with the provision of timely and appropriate supportive and housing services to assist people in moving out of homelessness. For more information about HSBC, please visit www.bouldercounty.org/departments/community-services/homeless/ or contact Heidi Grove at hgrove@bouldercounty.org.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/covid-19-race-ethnicity-data-analysis-illustrates-disparities-in-boulder-county/





April 16, 2020




COVID-19 Race/ethnicity Data Analysis Illustrates Disparities in Boulder County

Boulder County, CO — Boulder County Public Health epidemiology staff completed the first analysis on Boulder County COVID-19 data by race/ethnicity. About 79% of cases in Boulder County have a known race and ethnicity, which is slightly higher than Colorado as a whole, where roughly 75% of all state cases have been reported with a known race and ethnicity.
The data illustrates large disparities in the percentage of Boulder County residents who identify as Hispanic/Latinx (any race) who have tested positive or are considered probable for COVID-19. While Hispanic/Latinx individuals make up roughly 13.8% of the Boulder County population, they account for about 24% of the county’s COVID-19 cases and nearly one-third (31.9%) of those ever hospitalized during their COVID-19 illness. These disparities among Hispanic/Latinx folks in Boulder County are larger than the disparities seen statewide, where Hispanic/Latinx people represent about 21.7% of the population and 28.1% of COVID-19 cases.
“These disparities are concerning beyond the data points alone,” said Emily Payne, Boulder County Public Health epidemiologist. “We know that the Hispanic/Latinx population is younger in Colorado and Boulder County than the white non-Hispanic population. Despite this, there is a disproportionate percentage of Hispanic/Latinx residents in Boulder County with COVID-19 disease severe enough to warrant hospitalization.”
Because of unequal access to health care and economic opportunities, occurring over many generations, Hispanic/Latinx individuals in Colorado are also more likely to have some chronic diseases, including overweight or obesity and diabetes, which are known to increase the potential severity of COVID-19.
“At the heart of these disparities is systemic racism which we know from research produces institutional barriers to things like preventive medical care, healthy food, safe and stable housing, quality education, reliable transportation, and clean air. These barriers negatively impact a person’s health outcome,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health executive director. “COVID-19 does not discriminate, it affects people of every age and race/ethnicity. Using this data helps us to focus our prevention efforts to ensure all people in our community have equal access to information, opportunities, and care.”  
Boulder County and many municipalities within the county are already working collaboratively to address disparities. Initiatives include connector and cultural broker programs that include trusted representatives from harder-to-reach communities who share information and relay concerns back to local government, non-profit agencies, and private businesses for action. Data like this reinforces the importance of continuing and building on this work to ensure services, practices, and structures provide all people the opportunity for a healthy life.  
In addition, although the data shows a larger proportion of deaths among white non-Hispanic residents, 80% of deaths (12 of 15) to date have been among Boulder County residents living in long-term care facilities.
“Research has shown that access to long-term care facilities has been much lower among Asian, Black/African American, and Hispanic/Latinx older adults, which may also account for some of the results related to deaths,” said Payne. To help protect the identity of residents, data for race and ethnicity groups was only included when there were at least three cases of COVID-19 in a group.
For more information about COVID-19 illness and recovery among Boulder County residents, visit www.boco.org/covidillnessrecovery.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-

Percentages are based on populations or cases where race and Hispanic origin are known (about 79.1% of cases among Boulder County residents as of 3pm 4/15/20). Information is only reported for Boulder County race/ethnicity groups with 3 or more cases of COVID-19. Data sources: Boulder County Population- 2018 American Community Survey; all other data from Boulder County Public Health COVID-19 Epidemiology Team






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/update-to-carolyn-holmberg-preserve-at-rock-creek-farm-management-plan/




 


April 14, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Update to Carolyn Holmberg Preserve at Rock Creek Farm Management Plan

Public comment accepted online through April 20, 4:30 p.m., for consideration by POSAC
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Parks & Open Space staff will present public input received on the proposed plan update framework and schedule for discussion and input by the Parks & Open Space Advisory Board (POSAC) on Thursday, April 23, at 6:30 p.m.
Virtual MeetingAlthough most public meetings and opportunities for public input have been postponed by the COVID-19 virus, Boulder County is proceeding with public input and the public meeting on the update to the Carolyn Holmberg Preserve at Rock Creek Farm management plan in order to keep the plan development moving forward and on schedule.
As an alternative to the in-person public hearing planned for April 23, the POSAC will instead conduct a web-based meeting that the public can view or listen to live. This decision is in accord with the Governor Polis' public health order on social distancing due to COVID-19 in Colorado.

Parks & Open Space Advisory Committee Virtual Meeting Thursday, April 23, 6:30 p.m.
The link to view the meeting will be posted at boco.org/posac shortly before the meeting.

Online Public CommentAll public comment will be accepted online. The comment period began on Mar. 9 and the comment form will remain open throughout the update process. All comments received through the comment form by April 20 at 4:30 p.m. will be presented to POSAC for consideration before the meeting.
The staff memo for the POSAC meeting, an online comment form, and all submitted comments can be found at boco.org/CHPplan.
For more information or questions please contact Resource Planner Marni Ratzel at mratzel@bouldercounty.org or 303-678-6271. 

Bicyclists on the Mary Miller Trail at Carolyn Holmberg Preserve at Rock Creek Farm






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/changes-to-transit-services-in-boulder-county/




 


April 14, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



Changes to transit services in Boulder County

Changes affect RTD, City of Boulder, and local and regional services
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County is working with community and transit partners to help address COVID-19. Changes to transit services affecting Boulder County residents as of April 14, 2020 are summarized here:
RTD Fare Collection Suspension and New Boarding Procedures
RTD has suspended fare collection on all buses and trains across the RTD system until further notice. The agency is working through processes for refunds and exchanges on applicable fare products.
A rear-door boarding and exiting system has also been implemented to provide another layer of social distancing between operators and riders. Passengers with disabilities should continue to board RTD vehicles at the front, where a wheelchair lift is available, if needed. RTD’s over-the-road coaches used on regional routes have front doors only and passengers will continue to board and deboard from the front on those buses.
To allow for social distancing on board RTD vehicles, RTD is limiting capacity to approximately 15 passengers per bus, and 20 passengers on larger buses.Passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a cloth or homemade mask when riding public transit to help reduce the potential spread of COVID-19.
Beginning Sunday, April 19, RTD will make the following changes to service:No printed schedules are currently available, but schedules are available at www.rtd-denver.com
Changes to Weekday Regional Bus Service

FF2, FF4, FF6, J, LD2, LX1, LX2, Y - No service
FF5: 2 AM eastbound and 2 PM westbound trips
BOLT, LD3, NB, AB - Saturday schedule
FF1 - Saturday schedule, with added AM trips. No service 12:30 a.m.-5 a.m.
GS - Two AM and two PM trips each day
LD1 - Two AM southbound and two PM northbound trips each day

Changes to Weekday Local Bus Service

206, 209, 236 - No service
204, 208, 225, 228, 323, 324, 326, 327, BOUND - Saturday schedule
DASH, SKIP - Saturday schedule, with service beginning at 5:30 a.m.
205, JUMP - Saturday schedule, with service beginning at 6 a.m.

Changes to FlexRide Service (formerly Call-n-Ride)
Effective Sunday, April 19, all subscription-reserved trips will be suspended. All reservations will be treated as individual trips, on a first-come, first-served basis. One-time reservations may be made up to 30 days in advance. Saturday and Sunday service will operate as normally scheduled with the exception of all subscriptions being cancelled. For more information, visit www.rtd-denver.com/services/flexride.
The following FlexRide areas will have a FlexRide vehicle scheduled to leave the gate every hour starting at 6 a.m. with the last bus leaving at 5 p.m. and arriving back to the station/Park-n-Ride at 5:55 p.m. Boarding at the following stations/Park-n-Rides does not require a reservation:

Louisville - US 36 & McCaslin Station Gate H
Superior - US 36 & McCaslin Station Gate C

Changes to Access-a-Ride Service
Access-a-Ride will suspend 5-day advanced booking allowing customers to book for next-day trips only. Standing orders for trips are also canceled. If you need to book a trip, please call staff to book those trips still required. Both steps will reduce the demand for staff and allow us to continue to provide essential transportation for our customers. This change will remain in place until the Governor lifts the state of emergency.
If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19 or are experiencing symptoms associated with the virus, Access-a-Ride will not be able to provide you with transportation. This would apply in cases where you live at a residence where others are known to have the virus as well. You are encouraged to reach out to medical transportation providers who are equipped to provide medical related transportation.
For Access-a-Ride passengers only, RTD will offer grocery delivery from King Soopers or Safeway to your home. Customers interested in using this service must either call the grocer or food bank directly, or visit their website online, to set up the order and schedule the pickup time. Once the order has been placed, and you have a scheduled pickup time from your grocer or food bank, call Access-a-Ride reservations at 303-292-6560 and book a trip to pick up the groceries at that time. Please visit www.rtd-denver.com/services/access-a-ride for more information.
For more information, visit www.rtd-denver.com. Contact RTD directly about any questions regarding these services changes by calling 303-299-6000.
Non-RTD Service Changes

FLEX (Boulder to Ft Collins): Beginning April 18, the FLEX route will be suspended until further notice. Passengers are encouraged to check www.ridetransfort.com/flex for updates.
HOP (Boulder circulator): Beginning April 19, HOP will move to a Saturday schedule, suspend fare collection, and implement rear-door boarding. Passengers are encouraged to check www.bouldercolorado.gov/hopbus

The Climb (Boulder to Gold Hill): Suspended until further notice. Passengers are encouraged to check www.viacolorado.org/services/the-climb

Hessie Shuttle: Start of summer season delayed until further notice. Passengers are encouraged to check www.hessietrailhead.com

Bustang and Outrider Service (CDOT inter-regional bus service): All service currently suspended until April 26. Passengers are encouraged to check www.ridebustang.com


 







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/community-justice-services-continues-services-at-boulder-county-jail/




 


April 13, 2020




Community Justice Services Continues Services at Boulder County Jail

Boulder County Community Justice Services continues to provide programming and re-entry support to incarcerated and recently released individuals
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Community Justice Services (CJS) continues to provide programming and re-entry support to individuals currently incarcerated. The county’s five jail-based programs continue to operate in order to provide skills, support, and resources to individuals currently enrolled in programming in the jail. The five jail-based programs include Mental Health Diversion Program (MHDP), Bridges Behavioral Health Court Liaison (Bridges), Behavioral Health Assistance Program (BHAP), Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Program (COAP), and the Jail Education and Transition Program (JET).
A collaborative re-entry team made up of members of the five CJS jail-based programs has been created to provide comprehensive re-entry support to individuals preparing for, or unexpectedly released during COVID-19. This team is providing updated resources weekly to jail staff, probation, and court liaisons to ensure clients have access to current re-entry support resources. Each team continues to provide re-entry support to clients to ease the stress of transitioning to the community during this time.
Support by these programs provided to currently incarcerated individuals are: independent study program and peer support, supportive counseling via video calls, recovery and relapse prevention support, connection to skills to manage the stress and uncertainty individuals incarcerated may be experiencing, as well as re-entry support to address immediate re-entry needs to support individuals’ transitioning into the community. 
CJS jail-based programming and re-entry support continues through the collaboration of these teams in coordination with the Boulder County Sheriff’s Office. The Sheriff’s Office has ensured these programs can continue through provision of free video sessions with individuals and program staff. This service ensures individuals who participate in programs during this uncertain time continue to find support in their recovery and mental health needs while incarcerated. Weekly communication between CJS jail-based staff and Sheriff’s Office jail staff is ongoing to best support individuals programming needs.
If there are individuals who found themselves released unexpectedly due to the COVID-19 early release criteria, the five CJS jail-based teams continue to offer re-entry support. Anyone recently released from Boulder County jail and that need ongoing support transitioning into the community are encouraged to please contact JET Team member Deb Smith at dsmith@bouldercounty.org or 720-827-7880.
For current or updated information on these programs, please also visit the CJS website at www.bouldercounty.org/departments/community-services/community-justice-services/
For additional questions or information, please contact Marco Prospero, CJS Administrator at mprospero@bouldercounty.org or call 303-441-3664.











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/los-edificios-e-instalaciones-del-condado-de-boulder-permaneceran-cerrados-hasta-el-30-de-abril/




 


April 10, 2020




Los edificios e instalaciones del condado de Boulder permanecerán cerrados hasta el 30 de abril

Condado de Boulder, Colorado (1 de abril del 2020) - El gobernador Jared Polis ordenó que todas las escuelas primarias y secundarias públicas y privadas en Colorado permanezcan cerradas hasta el 30 de abril a fin de disminuir aún más la propagación de COVID-19. Este anuncio extiende el cierre de la mayoría de los distritos escolares en aproximadamente, dos semanas.
Si bien no tomó una posición de expandir otros elementos de la orden estatal de quedarse en casa, el gobernador sí citó la importancia de mantener cerradas las escuelas como una acción esencial para hacer cumplir con los lineamientos de distanciamiento social y de esta manera reducir el incremento en hospitales de todo el estado.
En alineación con la decisión del gobernador, el Condado de Boulder continuará manteniendo sus edificios cerrados al público hasta el 30 de abril a fin de que coincida con el cierre de las escuelas. (Originalmente, el acceso público a las instalaciones del condado se cerró hasta el 20 de abril.)
Mientras que las ubicaciones del condado permanezcan cerradas a causa de COVID-19, muchos servicios continúan estando disponibles en línea
El condado de Boulder continuará brindando servicios en línea y telefónicos para los programas y servicios del condado que no requieren interacciones en persona o que tienen requisitos legales para permanecer abiertos al público. Esto incluye muchos servicios comunitarios, de salud pública y programas de vivienda y servicios humanos, junto con los servicios de vehículos motorizados, grabación, planificación y permisos comunitarios y de impuestos. Además, los empleados del condado continuarán proporcionando la aplicación esencial de la ley, la construcción de carreteras y senderos así como la gestión de espacios abiertos que solo se pueden lograr en el campo o en instalaciones 24/7, como la cárcel.
Nota: Cualquier persona que necesite asistencia del Condado de Boulder debido a los impactos de COVID-19 debe consultar nuestra página de recursos de COVID-19 para ver los programas disponibles y asistencia financiera.
Mensaje de la administradora del condado de Boulder, Jana Petersen
Creemos que es importante que el Condado de Boulder siga el ejemplo del Estado de Colorado de cerrar las instalaciones del condado en sincronía con los cierres extendidos de las escuelas. Al alinear nuestras fechas de cierre, se envía un mensaje coherente al público y ayuda a nuestros empleados con niños pequeños a continuar trabajando desde su casa mientras todos trabajamos juntos para frenar la propagación de COVID-19. Como siempre, seguimos comprometidos a estar disponibles y ofrecer nuestros servicios a todos nuestros residentes durante este período extendido a través de teléfono, correo electrónico y acceso en línea.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/south-boulder-road-concrete-panel-replacement-project-starts-april-13/




 


April 10, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



South Boulder Road concrete panel replacement project starts April 13

Crews will reduce east- and westbound South Boulder Road to one lane at various times and locations
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Public Works and Concrete Works of Colorado will begin a concrete panel replacement project on South Boulder Road between Cherryvale Road and McCaslin Boulevard at 8 a.m. on Monday, April 13. In order to safely complete the work, crews will need to reduce east- and westbound South Boulder Road to one lane at various times and locations.
Lane closures are likely to be in place overnight throughout most of the project. Working hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Travelers (cars and bikes) should expect delays along the road. Cyclists will be asked to merge with motor vehicles, so please use caution when navigating through work zones.
Roadway concrete panel replacement is the main component of the project, but crews will also make drainage improvements and complete rockfall mitigation on the hillside near McCaslin Boulevard. Approximately 8,700 square yards of new concrete will be replaced as part of the $3.4 million project, which is roughly 250 concrete trucks worth of material. Work is expected to last into August.
The contractor has been informed of regulations pertaining to reducing the spread of coronavirus during essential construction projects, which includes social distancing and wearing personal protective equipment. County inspectors will be onsite during the work and will ensure that all precautions.
For more information, contact Andrew Barth, Boulder County Public Works Communications, at abarth@bouldercounty.org or call 303-441-1032.











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/new-general-floodplain-development-permit-2020-1-available-for-review-and-comment/




 


April 9, 2020

Media Contacts:
Kelly Watson, Boulder County Transportation, Floodplain Specialist, 720-564-2652
Andrew Barth, Boulder County Transportation, Communications, 303-441-1032



New General Floodplain Development Permit 2020-1 Available for Review and Comment

Two-week comment period begins on April 9, 2020





Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County is proposing to issue General Floodplain Development Permit (General FDP) 2020-1, and to rescind General FDPs 2016-1 and 2019-1, pursuant to Article 4-404.1 of the Boulder County Land Use Code.
General FDPs cover project types and uses in the Floodplain Overlay (FO) District that have been determined by the Floodplain Management Program to meet the standards set forth in Section 4-404.1(B) of the Boulder County Land Use Code, which, among other criteria, includes those project types and uses that have been determined to have minimal or no impact on flood hazards.
Background
General FDPs allow certain projects and uses to take place without the need for an Individual Floodplain Development Permit. Some projects permitted by a General FDP still require notification of the Floodplain Management Program.
General FDP 2020-1 covers a variety of specific activities in the FO District. The covered activities are related to general property management, transportation infrastructure, stream restoration and stormwater drainage systems, ditches or water delivery infrastructure, oil and gas maintenance, overhead and underground utilities, agriculture, and deconstruction or relocation of buildings and structures. General FDP 2020-1 will supersede and replace the previously issued General FDPs 2016-1 and 2019-1.
General FDP 2020-1 does not absolve the property owner from obtaining other required permits such as a Building Permit. All projects covered under General FDP 2020-1 must adhere to the conditions listed in Section II of the permit.
View or Comment

View the draft proposed General Floodplain Permit (FDP) 2020-1


A two-week comment period will begin on Thursday, April 9, 2020. Unless the Floodplain Management Program postpones the effective date based on comments received prior to Thursday, April 23, 2020 or for other good cause, with any such postponement announced on the webpage at the link above, General FDP 2020-1 will become effective at close-of-business on Thursday, April 23, 2020. General FDPs 2016-1 and 2019-1 will be rescinded at close-of-business on Thursday, April 23, 2020.
Please submit any questions or comments on General FDP 2020-1 via email to FloodplainAdmin@bouldercounty.org or by phone at 720-564-2652. Email is preferred.
 

For more information, contact Kelly Watson, Boulder County Transportation Floodplain Specialist, at kwatson@bouldercounty.org or 720-564-22652.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-planning-commission-agenda-for-april-15-2020/





April 8, 2020




Boulder County Planning Commission agenda for April 15, 2020

Planning Commission will hold its April 15th public meeting virtually starting at 2 p.m.





Boulder County, Colo. - The next meeting of the Boulder County Planning Commission will be Wed., April 15, 2020, beginning at 2 p.m. 
DUE TO COVID-19 CONCERNS AND SINCE BOULDER COUNTY OFFICES ARE CLOSED THROUGH APRIL 30, THIS MEETING WILL BE HELD VIRTUALLY. SIGN-UP TO RECEIVE INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW PARTICIPATE IN THE VIRTUAL MEETING ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION WEBPAGE: www.boco.org/PC
There will be opportunity to remotely provide public comment on the subject dockets during the respective virtual Public Hearing portions for each item. Written comments for these dockets may be submitted by emailing planner@bouldercounty.org and referencing the docket number in the subject of the email. Call 303-441-3930 or email planner@bouldercounty.org for information.
View the April 15, 2020 meeting agenda. Agenda items include:
Call to Order
Roll Call
Items: (Staff reports are posted on the docket webpages linked below.)


Public Hearing: Docket V-18-0005 Van Matre VacationRequest: REVISED: Request to vacate the southern half of 3rd Street and the platted rights-of-way of Iowa Avenue, West Virginia Avenue, Indiana Avenue, and the entire east-west platted alley between the platted rights-of-way of 3rd Street and 4th Street of the Capitol Hill Townsite.ORIGINAL: Request to vacate the platted rights-of-way of Iowa Avenue, West Virginia Avenue and Indiana Avenue between the platted rights-of-way of 3rd Street and 4th Street of the Capitol Hill Townsite and half of the platted alley which runs east to west between 3rd Street and 4th Street.Location: 200 & 214 N. 120th Street, S 1/2 & N 1/2 of Blocks 16, 17, 18, & 19 Capitol Hill Townsite, located approximately 500 feet south of the intersection of Flagg Drive and North 120th Street, in Section 1, Township 1S, Range 69W.Zoning: AgriculturalApplicants/Property Owners: Brady and Monica Van MatreStaff Planner(s): Jean (Raini) OttAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be taken


Public Hearing: Docket SU-19-0011 Nighthawk Equestrian CenterRequest: Special Review and Site Specific Development Plan to allow for an equestrian center use with accessory camping, the expansion and renovation of existing structures, and an accessory dwelling unit (ADU).Location: 5555 Nelson Road, located on the north side of Nelson Road approximately 500 feet east of its intersection with 55th Street, in Section 10, Township 1N, Range 70W.Zoning: AgriculturalApplicant/Property Owner: Nighthawk Equestrian Center LLCStaff Planner(s): Jean (Raini) OttAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be taken


Public Hearing: Docket SU-19-0015 Xcel Energy Community Solar GardenRequest: Special Use Review for an approximately 20-acre ground mounted solar energy system on an approximately 34-acre parcel.Location: 1808 N. 63rd Street, located east of N. 63rd Street approximately 0.25 miles north and 1 mile east of the intersection of Arapahoe Avenue/State Highway 7 and N. 63rd Street in Section 25, Township 1N, Range 70W.Zoning: AgriculturalApplicant/Property Owner: Public Service Co Of Colorado – Xcel, c/o Jeffrey StephensAgent: Jon FitzpatrickStaff Planner(s): Jean (Raini) OttAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be taken


Public Hearing: Docket LE-20-0001 New Lefthand Fire Protection District Station 1Request: Location & Extent review for removal of three existing structures and construction a new 14,725-square-foot fire station on a 1.933-acre parcel at 900 Lefthand Canyon Drive.Location: 868 & 900 Lefthand Canyon Drive, approximately 1,250 feet west of the intersection of Geer Canyon Drive & Lefthand Canyon Drive, Section 13, Township 2N, Range 71W.Zoning: AgriculturalApplicant/Property Owner: Lefthand Fire Protection DistrictAgent: Michael GordonStaff Planner(s): Sean GambrelAction Requested: DecisionPublic testimony will be taken


Public Hearing: Docket SI-20-0002 Bobtail Tungsten Pipeline Alternate RouteRequest: Areas and Activities of State Interest (1041) review for the construction of a new 8-inch diameter natural gas pipeline approximately 2 miles long that will serve as an extension to the existing natural gas pipeline delivery system that is owned, operated and maintained by the Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo), an Xcel Energy company; a control valve station will also be constructed to service the new pipeline connection.Location: At parcel 158324000021 (control valve station) and in the public right-of-way (pipeline) along portions of State Hwy 119 between the intersection of Magnolia Drive and State Hwy 119 and the Boulder / Gilpin County line, in Sections 19, 24, 25, Township 1S, Ranges 72W and 73W.Zoning: ForestryApplicant: Xcel Energy, Cheryl Diedrich, ROW and PermitsProperty Owners: U.S. Forest Service (parcel 158324000021) and CDOT (SH 119 ROW)Agent: Stephanie Phippen, Tetra Tech Inc.Staff Planner(s): Summer FrederickAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCPublic testimony will be taken


Adjournment.
Current and recent Planning Commission agendas, minutes, and archived video recordings are available on the Planning Commission webpage.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-parks-open-space-seeking-volunteers-for-two-cultural-history-programs/




 


April 8, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Boulder County Parks & Open Space seeking volunteers for two cultural history programs.

Deadlines for application in early May.
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Parks & Open Space is seeking volunteers for two cultural history programs.
Living History Demonstrators lead fun and easy demonstrations at special events and weekday school field trips at the Walker Ranch Homestead, an 1880s-era ranch in foothills west of Boulder. This is a great opportunity for families to get involved and volunteer together. The application deadline is Friday, May 1. Please visit the Walker Ranch Living History Demonstrator webpage for more information and to apply.
Mining Museum Guides work at the Nederland Mining Museum and James F. Bailey Assay Office Museum welcoming visitors, teaching them about the mining history of Boulder County and museum collections. There are also opportunities to lead educational programs for organized groups. Application deadline is Friday, May 9. Please visit the Mining Museum Guide webpage for more information and to apply.
Questions? Contact Sheryl Kippen at skippen@bouldercounty.org or 303-776-8848.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/update-regarding-building-inspections/




 


April 7, 2020




Update Regarding Building Inspections

Virtual inspections now available for selected building projects





Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County is continuing to adjust our processes and procedures in alignment with the most recent Public Health Orders. In an effort to expand our services as much as possible while still protecting the health and safety of all parties, we are temporarily expanding our abilities to perform Virtual Inspections during the COVID-19 Public Health Crisis.
Effective immediately, Boulder County Building Safety & Inspection Services will be performing virtual inspections for selected building projects.
All virtual inspections will be conducted between customers with firsthand knowledge of the installation and the Boulder County Inspector using a video call on a smart phone or tablet.
Not all inspections are eligible for virtual inspections. Some projects are too large, too complex, or require a level of detail that is not possible using virtual means. Many project types will require onsite inspections regardless of their size or complexity due to the materials or equipment used, or other project details. Eligibility for virtual inspection will be determined by the Building Inspector at their sole discretion. Full Inspections of new homes or large remodels are not eligible for virtual inspections at this time.
Customers must have firsthand knowledge of the installation and have a smartphone or tablet connected to WiFi or 4G wireless service. FaceTime (Apple OS devices), or Microsoft Teams (all devices) will be required to host the video call. Other software and hardware options will be added as we further develop this program.
Request a Building Inspection
Request a building inspection by sending an email to: buildinginspectors@bouldercounty.org. The email must include the following information:

Permit number
Type of inspection
Phone number for the person that will be walking the inspection site
Email address of the person that will be walking the inspection site
Method of video call you intend to use (FaceTime, or Microsoft Teams)

A building inspector will contact you to discuss the inspections requested and to set up a time for the virtual inspection.
Please ensure you have the necessary tools readily available to allow for the inspection. (Some common examples include: a tape measure, level, GFCI tester, step ladder, and/or flashlight.) A copy of the Approved Plans must be available on site during the inspection.
Make sure your mobile device is fully charged, and you have turned off phone or tablet notifications. Notifications can freeze the video feed during the call and could cause delays or require the inspection to be rescheduled.
We will be doing our best to handle these inspections as efficiency as possible. Please bear with us as we do our best to develop these systems. We have found that there are a number of technical challenges that can interfere with successful video inspections. There may be cases where these technical challenges will prevent inspections from taking place. We will do what we can to work through these challenges, but there may be cases where these difficulties cannot be overcome, and the inspection will not be possible. 
As a reminder: The Boulder County Community Planning & Permitting office at 2045 13th St., Boulder is CLOSED to the public until further notice.
Building issues related to health and safety will be addressed on a case-by-case basis. For more information, call 303-441-3930, or email the appropriate department:

Building Code & Building Plan Review: building@bouldercounty.org

Building Inspections: buildinginspectors@bouldercounty.org

Building Permits & Contractor License Applications: ezbp@bouldercounty.org

Floodplain Permits: floodplainadmin@bouldercounty.org

Liquor Licensing: liquorlicensing@bouldercounty.org

Marijuana Licensing: marijuanalicensing@bouldercounty.org

Planning/Zoning: planner@bouldercounty.org

Special Events: se@bouldercounty.org

Transportation Development Review: transdevreview@bouldercounty.org


Online services and information are available at www.boco.org/CPP-Building. The best and latest Boulder County information with COVID-19 updates is posted at www.boco.org/COVID-19.
 
Thank you,
Brian Nye, Building Inspector SupervisorBoulder County Community Planning & Permitting (formerly Land Use and Transportation)2045 13th St., Boulder CO 80302Mailing address: PO Box 471 Boulder CO 80306Direct: 720-564-2615Main: 303-441-3930bnye@bouldercounty.orgwww.BoulderCounty.org






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/third-boulder-county-resident-dies-from-covid-19-related-illness-school-districts-advised-to-prepare-for-virtual-learning-for-remainder-of-school-year/





April 4, 2020




Third Boulder County Resident Dies from COVID-19-related Illness; School Districts Advised to Prepare for Virtual Learning for Remainder of School Year

Boulder County, CO — Boulder County Public Health was notified today that a resident of a Boulder County long-term care facility in their 90s who had tested positive for COVID-19 has died. The individual is the third Boulder County resident with confirmed COVID-19 to die from complications caused by the virus; and the first from a Boulder County long-term care facility.
“Sadly, COVID-19 has taken the life of another member of our Boulder County community. Let’s do all we can to slow the spread of this insidious virus to prevent the loss of more of our beloved family, friends, and neighbors,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health director. “We can do this. It’s not too late. Please take as many precautions as you can. Stay home, keep away from others, cover your nose and mouth when out of the house, wash your hands, clean and disinfect, and you will help save lives.”
The recent death in a long-term care facility illustrates that COVID-19 is making its way into these communities.
“While no visitors have been permitted at long-term care facilities since March 13, we urge anyone coming into these communities for work or to deliver needed items to wear a mask, perform excellent hand hygiene, and stay away if they are ill.” said Gina Bare, Boulder County Public Health COVID response infection control branch manager. “We are working closely with our long-term care partners to make sure they have the supplies they need, including CDC guidance for the extended use of supplies.”
Boulder County Public Health continues to meet weekly with regional public health directors and the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment to review the most up-to-date research, modeling, and data to ensure local responses are effective and consistent across the region. One area of focus is whether or not to keep schools virtual for the remainder of the year.
“I have stayed in close contact with our SVVSD and BVSD superintendents and provided them with the latest information,” said Zayach. “It’s important to note that Governor Polis stated during his April 1 press conference that ‘We are confident that schools will not be able to resume statewide by April 30th. We certainly advise that school districts prepare for that.’”
For information about the illness and recovery of Boulder County and Colorado residents related to COVID-19, review the “Updates” section at www.boco.org/covid-19. Information is updated daily by 4 p.m.
Public Health officials ask residents to:

Strictly follow the Colorado Stay-at-Home order


Wear a cloth mask whenever outside of home. Leave medical masks for our healthcare workers
Stay at least 6 feet away from people who are not part of the household, even when wearing a face covering
Follow recommended hygiene practices


For general information about COVID-19, residents can call CO-Help at 303-389-1687 or 1-877-462-2911 or email them at COHELP@RMPDC.org. Both call centers have Spanish-speaking staff available.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/free-virtual-backyard-compost-workshops-from-boulder-county-resource-conservation/




 


April 2, 2020

Contact: 720-564-2220
resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org



Free Virtual Backyard Compost Workshops from Boulder County Resource Conservation

Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Resource Conservation Division is hosting six virtual Backyard Compost Workshops between April and May. These workshops will be held using Zoom video meetings, so access to a computer with audio is needed. Workshops are free and open to the public, though registration is required.
Visit www.boco.org/CompostWorkshops to register and join us in learning how to start and maintain a successful backyard compost system.
Virtual workshops will all be from 6-8 p.m. on the following dates:

Monday, April 6 

Monday, April 13

Thursday, April 23 

Thursday, May 7 

Monday, May 11 

Thursday, May 14 


For questions or more information, please contact Kennedy Roddy at kroddy@bouldercounty.org or 720-564-2226.


For more information, visit www.BoulderCountyRecycles.org, or contact 720-564-2220 or resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/another-boulder-county-family-loses-a-loved-one-to-covid-19/





March 31, 2020




Another Boulder County Family Loses a Loved One to COVID-19

Boulder County, CO — Boulder County Public Health was notified on March 31, 2020, that a resident in their 70s who had tested positive for COVID-19 has died. The individual had been hospitalized for nearly two weeks. The virus was transmitted within our local community. . This is the second Boulder County resident with confirmed COVID-19 to die from complications caused by the virus.
“I am heartbroken to learn that another Boulder County family has been torn apart by this disease,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health director. “In the next couple weeks, it is likely we will see a rapid increase in the number of people in our community who test positive for the virus, including people who will require hospital care for their illness. Now, more than ever, it is vital that we all follow the Colorado Public Health order and stay at home as much as possible. The more we all stay home, the more successful we will be at stopping this virus from spreading and causing illness and death in our community.”
“If you absolutely must go out, be very sure that you stay at least 6 feet away from others who do not live in your household, and wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds as soon as you get home. Take as many precautions as you can, like bringing a disinfectant wipe with you to touch things like gas pump handles and grocery carts. It is also very important that you continue keeping your home clean and disinfected in accordance with CDC guidelines,” said Zayach. “Thank you for your commitment to the health and safety of our community. We will get through this – six feet apart, but together!”
Including this recent death, 100 Boulder County residents have tested positive for COVID-19 to date; 42 have now recovered. Those testing positive for the disease range in age from the teens to the 80s, and the average age is 45 years.
COVID-19 is primarily spread through respiratory droplets spread when a person with the illness coughs or sneezes. People who have prolonged contact within six feet of a person with the disease are most at risk of transmission.
Public Health officials ask residents to strictly follow the Stay-at-Home order, including:

Staying at your place of residence and only leaving for essential activities.
Ceasing all business activity unless you can do so safely from home or you work in an essential business.
Cease all public or private gatherings other than gatherings of a single household or living unit.
Cease all travel except essential travel.

For general information about COVID-19, residents can call CO-Help at 303-389-1687 or 1-877-462-2911 or email them at COHELP@RMPDC.org. Both call centers have Spanish-speaking staff available.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/advisory-and-resources-for-those-suffering-abuse-during-covid-19/




 


March 30, 2020

20th Judicial DistrictDistrict Attorney Michael Dougherty
Community Protection Division: 303-441-3700



Advisory and Resources For Those Suffering Abuse During COVID-19






(Boulder County, Colo.) -- While our community takes important and necessary precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, some community members are at greater risk due to stay-at-home orders and social distancing measures now in place.  Due to isolation and economic uncertainty that exist because of the pandemic, underlying stressors leading to domestic violence, child abuse, and elder abuse may worsen during this time. 
District Attorney Michael Dougherty advises Boulder County community members that law enforcement, the District Attorney’s Office, medical professionals, and local non-profits in Boulder County remain available to assist those in need.  The District Attorney’s Office encourages the community to remain vigilant in identifying and reporting abuse, while offering support to those suffering from abuse in the home.
District Attorney Michael Dougherty stated, “At this time of isolation and elevated stress, victims of domestic violence and abuse are particularly at risk because they may be trapped at home with their abusers.  We strongly encourage victims of abuse to reach out to us for help.  For community members, it is important to check in with loved ones and friends.  Our office is providing resource information for community members to share and use when necessary.”     
The Community Protection Division of the District Attorney’s Office has created this flyer to provide information to the community of resources available at this time.  The District Attorney’s Office remains committed to serving and protecting the community 24/7 during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/more-than-150-local-medical-and-mental-health-professionals-respond-to-call-for-help-with-covid-19-public-health-preparing-for-surge-of-illness/





March 30, 2020




More than 150 Local Medical and Mental Health Professionals Respond to Call for Help with COVID-19; Public Health Preparing for Surge of Illness

Boulder County, CO — In just a matter of weeks after putting out the call for medical volunteers to help with the COVID-19 response, more than 150 professionals have signed up.
“We are so grateful for the interest we’ve received so far,” said Chris Campbell, Medical Reserve Corps of Boulder County (MRCBC) unit coordinator. “While we can’t know for sure what will be needed, the level of interest to step up like this helps us all be better prepared.”
Volunteers are from a range of medical professions, including nurses, physicians, physician assistants, emergency medical technicians (EMT), certified nursing assistants (CNA), medical assistants, mental health practitioners, and public health professionals.
“We are preparing for a potential surge in demand for hospital care,” said Campbell. “MRCBC volunteers will be needed to help hospitals care for people who need care at a time when the healthcare system will be extremely challenged.”
Boulder County Public Health and the local hospitals have planned and trained for medical surge situations for more than a decade. In addition, local hospitals and public health are coordinating with state officials to plan for intensive care and ventilator needs.
Despite the outpouring of support, additional medical professionals will be needed in this response, including those who are active, practicing, retired, or non-practicing. Anyone interested in helping can visit www.BoulderCountyMRC.org to learn more about the MRCBC or register to volunteer.
Residents who are interested in volunteering their non-medical skills and knowledge are encouraged to go to HelpColoradoNow.com.
The Medical Reserve Corps (MRC) Program is housed within the Readiness Division, Office of Emergency Management and Medical Operations, Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). MRCBC recruits, trains, and activates volunteers in the event of a public health emergency in Boulder County.
-BoulderCountyMRC.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/final-official-results-for-2020-presidential-primary-election/




 


March 25, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Final Official Results for 2020 Presidential Primary Election

Boulder County successfully completed Risk-Limiting Audit





Boulder County, Colo. – The final official results from Boulder County’s 2020 Presidential Primary Election are available now at http://www.BoulderCountyVotes.org.
The final official results include the Statement of Votes, a document that shows precinct-by-precinct results for the presidential candidates. The Statement of Votes will be forwarded to the Colorado Secretary of State’s office as part of the election close out process.
Earlier in the post-election process, elections staff and the appointed Audit Board (two Democratic Party and two Republican Party representatives) successfully completed the Boulder County portion of the statewide Risk-Limiting Audit. This is a post-election test that provides citizens with evidence that election results tabulated by our voting system reflect the actual votes cast by voters. The process reviews how a ballot’s votes were captured at the time it was processed by our voting system by comparing the actual physical ballots with their digital tallies captured at the time of processing. To perform the audit, the Secretary of State’s office assigns a random sampling of the exact ballots you must review out of all the ballots cast in an election.
Elections staff also completed the reconciliation process. This process provides the evidence for the Canvass Board to certify that the number of votes counted is equal to or less than the number of ballots cast and that the number of ballots cast is equal to or less than the number of eligible voters. The Reconciliation Report is also available online.
This year’s Canvass Board consisted of Boulder County Clerk Molly Fitzpatrick and party representatives from the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. Pat Fesser and Lynne McNamara represented the Democratic Party. Emily Brake and Robert Johnson represented the Republican Party.
Tuesday afternoon via a remote video conference, the Canvass Board certified the election results. The canvass documents, audit documentation, and the Statement of Votes are available at www.BoulderCountyVotes.org.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/tres-departamentos-de-salud-publica-de-metro-denver-emiten-ordenes-de-quedarse-en-casa-para-detener-la-propagacion-del-covid-19/





March 25, 2020




Tres departamentos de salud pública de Metro Denver emiten órdenes de quedarse en casa para detener la propagación del COVID-19

Tres departamentos de salud pública que sirven a más de 2 millones de residentes en la región metropolitana de Denver se unieron para emitir Órdenes de salud pública de quedarse en casa en sus respectivos condados a partir del día de hoy, 26 de marzo a las 8 a.m. hasta el 17 de abril a las 11:59 p.m. a menos que los funcionarios determinen que en interés de la salud pública su expiración sea en una fecha y tiempo anterior. Los departamentos incluyen al Departamento de Salud Pública del Condado de Boulder, al Departamento de Salud Pública del Condado de Jefferson y al Departamento de Salud de tres Condados integrados (Tri-County, los cuales sirven a los condados de Adams, Arapahoe y Douglas).
"Hay una transmisión generalizada del COVID-19 en el área metropolitana de Denver, y debemos tomar medidas audaces para detener la propagación de este virus", señaló John M. Douglas, Jr., MD, director ejecutivo del Departamento de Salud de los tres Condados. “Cada día que pasa, corremos mayor riesgo de más transmisión y enfermedad y agobiando rápidamente a nuestros hospitales, los cuales realmente son un recurso para toda nuestra región y estado. Cuando esto sucede, no todas las personas pueden recibir la atención que necesitan. Es una posibilidad real en Colorado, y una situación que ya ha ocurrido en países como Italia, y que amenaza con suceder en las principales ciudades de EE.UU. y otras áreas de nuestro país. Entendemos el costo que las medidas para abordar la pandemia están teniendo en nuestras comunidades, y deseamos asegurarles a los residentes que este paso es temporal y crítico para acercarnos a la recuperación”.
Estas órdenes de quedarse en casa se suman a otras órdenes de salud pública emitidas recientemente las cuales promueven el distanciamiento social, como las del Departamento de Salud Púbica y del Medioambiente de Colorado - Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. Si bien han sido beneficiosas0, no creemos que hayan hecho lo suficiente para retrasar la transmisión. Las órdenes de quedarse en casa van más allá de exigirle a las personas que pongan de su parte al quedarse en casa y se mantengan alejadas de personas fuera de su residencia. Las órdenes de salud pública requieren que todas las personas, en cada Condado, permanezcan en su lugar de residencia, y que hagan todo lo posible para llevar a cabo únicamente las actividades esenciales y necesarias para mantener la salud y el bienestar, como comprar alimentos, obtener suministros médicos o medicamentos, y / o participar en actividades al aire libre como caminar, senderismo o correr mientras se siguen todas las prácticas de distanciamiento social.
También se permite trabajar para proporcionar servicios comerciales y gubernamentales esenciales o para realizar construcción de infraestructuras públicas esenciales, incluyendo viviendas. Se insta a las personas con alto riesgo de enfermedad grave por el COVID-19 y a las personas que están enfermas de que permanezcan en sus residencias, excepto para buscar atención médica.
“La evidencia científica indica que debemos actuar ahora, en esta etapa de la emergencia del COVID-19, para salvar vidas a largo plazo. Esto nos dará el tiempo que necesitamos para realizar pruebas exhaustivas y frenar la propagación del virus, a fin de evitar que nuestro sistema de atención médica se vea sobrecargado”, señaló Jeff Zayach, director ejecutivo de Salud Pública del Condado de Boulder.
"El virus se transmite fácilmente a través del contacto de persona a persona, y el riesgo de transmisión es mucho mayor cuando las personas están cerca", señaló el Dr. Mark B. Johnson, director ejecutivo de
Salud Pública del Condado de Jefferson. “Esta orden ayudará a proteger a todos en nuestra comunidad al garantizar que se sigan las medidas de distanciamiento social. Al tomar esta acción ahora, podremos comenzar a aplanar la curva pandémica - flatten the pandemic curve.”
Ejemplos de actividades permitidas bajo las órdenes de quedarse en casa *

Obtener atención médica para usted, un miembro de su familia o su mascota.
Visitar a un profesional de la salud.
Obtener atención médicos o medicamentos.
Ir a comprar alimentos, comida (comida para llevar, autoservicio, bancos / despensas de alimentos) y demás artículos esenciales para el hogar.
Buscar suministros para trabajar desde casa.
Recoger materiales de la escuela de su hijo necesarios para el aprendizaje a distancia (tableta, libros).
Salir al aire libre para realizar una actividad física, siempre y cuando se mantenga al menos a 6 pies de distancia de las personas fuera de su residencia y se sigan las prácticas de distanciamiento social.
Ir a trabajar, SOLO si proporcionan productos o servicios esenciales de un negocio esencial (operaciones de atención médica, operaciones de infraestructura y mantenimiento, ciertas funciones gubernamentales).

Ejemplos de actividades no permitidas bajo la orden de quedarse en casa *

Reuniones públicas o privadas en persona con cualquier tipo con personas fuera de su residencia.
Viajar, excepto para obtener servicios esenciales o atención médica.
Compartir traslado con personas fuera de su residencia.
* Esta no es una lista exhaustiva. Consulte las Órdenes para obtener una lista completa de actividades y servicios esenciales, así como los requisitos de distanciamiento social.

Durante el período de permanencia en casa, alentamos a nuestras comunidades a mantenerse conectadas entre sí y a tomar medidas para mantener la salud y el bienestar. He aquí algunas ideas:

Llame o haga video chat con amigos, vecinos y familiares.
Salga a caminar al aire libre, pero manténgase por lo menos a 6 pies de distancia de los demás.
Planifique una noche de juegos familiares con personas que ya viven en su hogar.
Lea un buen libro, escuche música o vea un programa favorito.
Cocine una comida saludable.
Comience su limpieza de primavera.
Haga manualidades: sea creativo y use lo que está disponible en su hogar.

Para obtener un resumen de los detalles de la Orden, visite boco.org/covid-19 y haga clic en "Orden de quedarse en casa."
Para asistencia de emergencia, asistencia alimentaria y financiera, asistencia médica y asistencia de salud mental y asistencia de cuidado infantil en el Condado de Boulder, visite el Condado de Boulder COVID-19 resource webpage.
Para obtener más información sobre COVID-19, llame a CO-Help al 303-389-1687 ó al 1-877-462-2911 ó envíe un correo electrónico a COHELP@RMPDC.org.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/message-from-boulder-county-public-health-director-re-/





Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/late-payment-delinquent-interest-policy-for-property-tax-payments/





March 24, 2020




Late Payment & Delinquent Interest Policy for Property Tax Payments

Boulder County, Colo. - With Executive Order D 2020 012, Governor Jared Polis authorized the county treasurers within Colorado to suspend or waive delinquent interest that may accrue as a result of delinquent tax payments for 30 days.
Many taxpayers had planned to make full payments of property taxes by April 30, but with the changing circumstances due to COVID-19, this may now be very difficult for many taxpayers. From now until April 20, the Boulder County Treasurer's Office will accept delinquent 1st half payments (originally due March 2) without interest. The second half payment of property taxes will be due June 15.
To make this first half payment without interest you must pay with a check or cash - this cannot be paid online. Please either drop a check or cash in the dropbox at 1325 Pearl Street, Boulder or mail it to Treasurer's Office, P.O. BOX 471, Boulder, CO 80306-0471.
You can also use the 24 hour automated phone payment system at 1-800-272-9829, using Jurisdiction Code 1601. Payment via the phone system incurs a 2.5% charge for using a credit card, but is free to use an e-check.
The Executive Order only extends to current year (2019 taxes) delinquent tax payments, not on any other interest or fees. The Order only applies to payments made between March 20 and April 20 (interest cannot be retroactively removed if a late payment has already been made prior to March 20). This waiver of interest does not apply to accounts where the taxes are being paid by a mortgage company through a taxpayer’s escrow account or by a title company as part of a real estate closing.
By law, the Governor must limit the executive order on interest-free delinquent payments for 30 days to allow the Colorado Legislature to take action. Should the Legislature not act within that time period, and the situation that brought on the need for the Executive Order still exists, the Governor can choose to extend those provisions.
There are many resources to help taxpayers during this situation. Visit the Boulder County Treasurer's Office website at, www.bouldercountytreasurer.org for some resources, or the State of Colorado website, www.colorado.gov. 
The Treasurer's Office is also available to answer questions by phone or email at 303-441-3520 or treasurer@bouldercounty.org. 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/red-hill-and-rabbit-mountain-elk-herd-management-plans-presented-for-approval-at-march-30-virtual-public-meeting/




 


March 20, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Red Hill and Rabbit Mountain elk herd management plans presented for approval at March 30 virtual public meeting

Public comment accepted online through March 27, 4:30 p.m., for consideration by BOCC.
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Parks & Open Space staff will present the draft "Red Hill Elk Management Plan" and the "Ron Stewart Preserve at Rabbit Mountain Elk and Vegetation Management Plan (2017-2020) – Addendum" for approval by the Board of County Commissioners (BOCC) on Monday, March 30, at 4:30 p.m.
Virtual Meeting
Although most public meetings and opportunities for public input have been postponed by the COVID-19 virus, Boulder County is proceeding with public input and the public meeting on the Red Hill and Rabbit Mountain elk herd management plans in order to meet an April 7 deadline from Colorado Parks & Wildlife. If that deadline is moved, the public input process and meeting may be delayed.
As an alternative to the in-person public hearing planned for March 30, the commissioners will instead conduct a web-based meeting that the public can view or listen to live. The link to view the meeting will be posted at boco.org/elk shortly before the meeting. This decision is in accord with the Governor Polis' public health order on social distancing due to COVID-19 in Colorado limiting gatherings to no more than 10 people.
 



Board of County Commissioners Virtual MeetingMonday, March 30, 4:30 p.m.
The link to view the meeting will be posted at boco.org/elk.



 
Online Public Comment
All public comment will be accepted online. The comment period began at the Feb. 5 open house and the comment form will remain open through March 27 at 4:30 p.m. All comments received through the comment form will be presented to the BOCC for consideration before the meeting. We hope to have the capacity to take comments from the public during the meeting online but encourage people to provide written comments through the form by March 27. The plans, comment forms, and all submitted comments can be found at boco.org/elk.
Both proposals were reviewed by the Parks & Open Space Advisory Committee (POSAC) and recommended for approval by the BOCC on February 27. The minutes and video of the POSAC meeting are available on boco.org/posac.
For more information or questions please contact Wildlife Biologist Dave Hoerath at dhoerath@bouldercounty.org or 303-678-6204.
 











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/due-to-covid-19-board-of-county-commissioners-vacates-schedule-for-review-of-proposed-oil-and-gas-regulations/




 


March 20, 2020




Due to COVID-19, Board of County Commissioners Vacates Schedule for Review of Proposed Oil and Gas Regulations

New dates will be announced when renewed Boulder County operations can be predicted with certainty
 
Boulder County, Colo. - In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the public meetings currently scheduled for review of Boulder County’s proposed oil and gas regulations (amendments to Article 12 of the Boulder County Land Use Code covering Oil and Gas Operations) in front of the Planning Commission and Board of County Commissioners are canceled.
Because the dynamic situation with the pandemic does not allow county staff to predict when public facilities will be open and public gatherings will again be appropriate, new dates for these hearings are not yet proposed. Updates to the schedule will be announced as soon as a safe and robust public process is possible. See www.boco.org/OilGas for updates on all oil and gas related matters.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/message-to-boulder-county-residents-about-covid-19-coronavirus/




 


March 19, 2020




A message to Boulder County residents about COVID-19 (coronavirus)






Message from the Board of Boulder County Commissioners
As we face these extraordinary circumstances, it’s important to remember we’re a community – and that together, we will get through this difficult time in our lives caused by the COVID-19 coronavirus.
Boulder County residents have a long and resilient history of working together through tough times, from wildfires to floods to economic recessions, and we will do so again as we have before.
While the impacts we’re experiencing now are different from recent disasters and traumas, the stress and strain on our everyday way of life will undoubtedly lead to feelings of uncertainty, anxiousness, and frustration – just as they have during past threats to our collective security and wellbeing.
And, while it’s clear that this new normal of social distancing will test our outward sense of community, now is not a time to panic. We need to be responsible, be prepared, and be compassionate with one another, particularly our neighbors who are the most vulnerable: older adults, people who already have health challenges, and individuals and families who have fewer resources to fall back on.
Our dedicated health experts at Boulder County Public Health and the State of Colorado have established a number of protective requirements for us all to heed. We appreciate your understanding of the need for – and for following – these strict and restrictive protective measures. These were hard, yet critical decisions to make:

Never before has it been more important to stop the spread of disease by keeping distance from others outside of your household as much as you can. Stay home if you are sick, minimize trips to the stores, avoid meetings in groups larger than 10 people, and keep a distance of at least six feet from other people whenever possible.
You’ve also heard the renewed calls to wash your hands often for at least 20 seconds, use hand sanitizer if you’re unable to get to soap and water, and regularly clean frequently touched surfaces in your home, car, or office with a standard household cleaner.

We believe it is our responsibility – collectively – including those of us less at risk, to work together to prevent the transmission of the virus so that we don’t swamp our healthcare system, causing more Coloradans to get sick and possibly die, or prolong the economic hit to our community.
By acting together – now – we can lessen the impact of COVID-19 on Boulder County over time. We know this isn’t easy, but everything you are doing now with social distancing and preventing spread of the disease is critical to keeping your family and others safe, and to make our community more resilient.
Also, while county buildings are closed, we take seriously our role in continuing to serve Boulder County residents. We have compiled resources to explain the illness, give clarity to county operations and services available at this time, and to provide resources to our community members in need. Please visit the following pages to find more information:

www.boco.org/COVID-19 (Facts about the disease and FAQs to help lessen the spread of COVID-19)
www.boco.org/COVIDCountyClosures (A list of our closed facilities and links to online services)
www.boco.org/COVID-19Resources (Resources for those affected by the impacts of COVID-19)

These disruptions will continue for a while and will cause stress in our lives. We are so thankful for your sacrifice and willingness to help. Please be kind to one another and remember that others are also struggling. We have faced and overcome adversity before.
Together we can – and will – get through this.
Deb Gardner, Elise Jones, Matt Jones
Boulder County Commissioners






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-implements-service-changes-during-covid-19/




 


March 19, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging Implements Service Changes During COVID-19

Connect with BCAAA by phone and email for resource connections
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging events and programs have all been canceled at this time amid COVID-19 concerns. Following Boulder County policy and Public Health guidelines, all Boulder County government buildings are currently closed to the public. Normal BCAAA in-person volunteer services have also been suspended, including Respite & Companion, and Rainbow Connections volunteer visits.
BCAAA is taking precautions, with safety being the utmost priority, especially with the older adult population BCAAA serves. The health, safety and well-being of clients, volunteers, and staff is of paramount importance. BCAAA acknowledges the inconvenience these changes may cause, but believes it is best to reduce the risk of community spread and exposure. 
BCAAA services are available by phone and email only, and service changes have been implemented to continue to serve the community. Please find a list of resources and contact information below.
BCAAA staff is available to answer calls and emails during normal business hours from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Information, Referral, or Resources - These connections include all of Boulder County, including mountain and rural communities.

Email: infoADRC@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 303-441-1617
Online Resource: bouldercountyhelp.org


Healthy Aging Programs

Email: InfoHealthyAging@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 303-441-4995 (English) or 303-441-3774 (Spanish)

Medicare Counseling - Medicare Basics information will soon be available online.

Email: medicarecounseling@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 303-441-1546 (English) or 303-678-6113 (Spanish)

Caregiver Programs

Email: infocaregiver@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 303-678-6116

Veterans Services Officers

Boulder

Email: jpbrown@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 303-441-3890


Longmont

Email: ktownsend@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 720-864-6663



Long-Term Care Ombudsman

Email: infoLTCO@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 303-441-1173

Nutrition Resources - General inquiries regarding nutrition programs and meal deliveries.

Email: tdeanni@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 303-441-4995 (English) or 303-441-3867 (Spanish)
To learn more about available Nutrition Resources across the county, visit: https://bit.ly/2IITLxu


General Office Inquiries

Email: bcaaa@bouldercounty.org

Phone: 303-441-3570 (English) or 303-441-3867 (Spanish)

For updated information on BCAAA operations and community resources, please follow BCAAA's Facebook page: www.facebook.com/BoulderCountyAreaAgencyonAging/.
For more information about COVID-19, Boulder County closures, cancellations, and online services, please visit: www.boco.org/COVID-19.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/consumer-advisory/




 


November 21, 2019

20th Judicial DistrictDistrict Attorney Michael Dougherty
Community Protection Division: 303-441-3700



Consumer Advisory






(Boulder County, Colo.) -- District Attorney Michael Dougherty advises those traveling during this holiday season to use caution with regard to USB charging stations provided at many airports, hotels and other public locations.  In the USB charging scam known as “juice jacking,” hackers can modify charging stations in train and bus stations, on trains, and in airports and other public places like hotels and shopping malls.  The hackers replace USB ports and cables at the charging stations with similar connectors loaded with malware.  When an unsuspecting traveler uses the corrupted connectors, the hacker has a way into the user's device, and can lock it, export private information like account numbers, passwords and addresses, or even transmit a full backup of data from the user's device.
The Community Protection Division of the District Attorney's office (CPD) advises community members to bring chargers, cords and cables from home when traveling this holiday season, and to plug these into a wall electrical outlet rather than into a public USB charging station.  Travelers could also consider bringing along a portable power charger if they need to recharge their devices while on the road.  In addition, the CPD advises travelers to avoid using tech accessories (such as charging cords) that appear to have been left behind by others in public locations, as these might contain a chip that deploys malware once they are used to connect to a user's device.
Contact the the CPD with questions or to report a scam at (303) 441-3700.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-trails-see-increase-in-visitation/




 


March 18, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Boulder County trails see increase in visitation.

Tips for safe visits to open space
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Parks & Open Space staff appreciates the desire of community members to visit open space trails amid increasing concerns of COVID-19. Getting outside for fresh air and exercise is recommended by Boulder County Public Health at this time, but precautions are necessary. It's important to follow careful guidelines as increasing numbers of residents visit open space trails:

DON’T visit if you’re sick! Stay home and help protect others.
Plan your visit carefully. Know your limits and the county Rules & Regulations while on the trail. Don't put first responders and medical personnel at risk.
If a parking area is full, move on to another park or trailhead.
Visit areas that are less crowded. Here are a few ideas for less popular places to explore:

Ride our Regional Trails! You can ride and walk from Erie to Boulder and Longmont to Boulder on the LoBo Trail, Coal Creek Trail, and Rock Creek Trail.
If the Coalton Trailhead parking is full, park at Superior’s new Oerman-Roche trailhead just north of Key Bank on McCaslin to hike and ride the county’s Mayhoffer Singletree Trail.
Lagerman Agricultural Preserve just east of Longmont provides long, flat trails and great views of the mountains.


Don’t organize large group gatherings.
Announce your presence to others to help maintain the recommended six feet of social distance. Be sure to signal your presence with your voice or a bell when passing others.
Practice strong hygienic measures. Frequently clean and disinfect any shared hiking, climbing or sporting equipment.

Please stay informed. Check boco.org/trails before your visit for up-to-date information for possible visitor restrictions or closures in response to trail and park conditions and the COVID-19 virus. For the latest county updates and guidelines on how to manage COVID-19, please visit boco.org/covid-19.

Heil Valley Ranch






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/nederland-and-allenspark-transfer-stations-moving-to-limited-operations-effective-immediately/




 


March 16, 2020

Contact: 720-564-2220
resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org



Nederland and Allenspark Transfer Stations moving to limited operations effective Immediately.

No cost to drop off household materials at this time
Boulder County, Colo. -In an effort to assist with preventing the spread of COVID-19, the transfer stations in Nederland and Allenspark will be operating regular hours, but will only collect household trash (bags), recycling, (and compost in Nederland). 
As usual, no commercial and construction waste will be accepted. No pickup truck-beds and no trailers of waste will be accepted at this time due to the limited operations. Please take these materials directly to area landfills or other outlets. In addition, for the time being, there will be no charge for dropping off household trash, recycling, and compost. By not accepting currency we can help slow the virus’ spread. We appreciate your understanding of limited services during these times. 

 For more information contact Cody Lillstrom at jlillstrom@bouldercounty.org or 720-564-2757


For more information, visit www.BoulderCountyRecycles.org, or contact 720-564-2220 or resourceconservation@bouldercounty.org







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-clerk-recorder-motor-vehicle-recording-elections-urges-use-of-online-services-restrictions-to-in-person-service-due-to-covid-19/




 


March 16, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County Clerk & Recorder (Motor Vehicle, Recording, Elections) urges use of online services, restrictions to in-person service due to COVID-19

Most services are available online. Call if in doubt.





(Boulder County, Colo.) -- As a follow-up to an earlier Boulder County press release announcing limited access to building and in-person services in an effort to help reduce the rate of COVID-19 transmission, the Boulder County Clerk & Recorder's office is urging residents to use online services and will be restricting in-person services to only transactions that cannot be done online, over the phone, or by email.
While we have staff shortages due to school closures, we will be staffing our phone lines and email and do our best to respond in a timely fashion. Our normal hours of operation will be in effect: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. (subject to change).
Motor Vehicle:


Most services are available online including: vehicle registration / tag renewals (even when expired or in the grace month), duplicate registration or title requests, address changes, disability parking, and more.
If you are in doubt or have any issue renewing online, call our office: 303-413-7710. There may be ways staff can help or ways to complete a transaction over email.
We will remain open to service only the transactions that must be conducted in-person, such as:

Private party sales (person to person vehicle sales). Before coming in, please review the required documents list online and call first to verify you have all the necessary paperwork.
Vehicle Title name / ownership changes. Please call first to verify all necessary paperwork.
Special Mobile Machinery (SMM) registration
Call first for all other services: 303-413-7710





Recording:

No services in Longmont/Lafayette.
Boulder office will only issue marriage licenses as our in-person service.
All other recording services, such as recording a document, searching records, etc. will be handled over the phone and by email. Call our office for assistance: 303-413-7770.



Elections

No in-person visits without calling first. Please call our office for assistance with voter registration and election-related needs: 303-413-7740. Petition collections - please call us to arrange a visit.



For a complete list of county building closures and limited in-person services, see earlier March 15 press release.
For updates related to the novel corona virus (COVID-19), go to www.BoCo.org/COVID-19.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/additional-boulder-county-residents-test-positive-for-covid-19-residents-urged-to-practice-social-distancing/





March 15, 2020




Additional Boulder County Residents Test Positive for COVID-19: Residents Urged to Practice Social Distancing

Boulder County, CO – Four additional Boulder County residents have tested positive for COVID-19. While the disease investigations are still being conducted, it is clear that there has been exposure from national and international travel, and from ski areas in Colorado where there is known to be local transmission occurring. There has been exposure to others while the ill persons had symptoms, confirming that there is most certainly local transmission occurring in Boulder County. A total of seven Boulder County residents have tested positive for the disease to date.
“Two people had exposures in Colorado mountain towns, which have been reported to have local disease transmission,” said Carol Helwig, Boulder County Public Health communicable disease program manager. “We are greatly concerned that transmission is becoming more widespread, and we urge the public to immediately start practicing social distancing.”
With this new information, and the notice from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment asking people who visited Eagle, Summit, Pitkin, or Gunnison counties in the past week to minimize contact with others, Boulder County Public Health strongly recommends all residents stay home as much as possible.
“We are entering the most critical phase,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health director. “It is vital that everyone be diligent about social distancing.”
“We are at a local turning point; COVID-19 is in our community” said Helwig. “We need everyone to do their part in order to get ahead of this and to prevent overwhelming our healthcare system.”
COVID-19 is primarily spread through respiratory droplets spread when a person with the illness coughs or sneezes. People who have prolonged contact within six feet of a person with the disease are most at risk of transmission.
“Never before has it been more important to heed the call to stay away from others outside of your household as much as you can,” said Zayach.
Public Health officials ask residents to practice social distancing, including:

Stay home when you are sick. 
Stay home or in a comparable setting as much as possible: work from home if possible; if you can’t work from home, maintain at least 6 feet of distance between you and your coworkers or customers.
Only go to public spaces for necessities such as groceries and the pharmacy.
Continue healthy, non-group activities like walking, hiking, jogging, cycling and other activities that maintain distance from other people.
Don’t gather in group settings; avoid gatherings larger than 10 people.
Maintain distance (approximately 6 feet) from others.
If you need to travel, use a private vehicle instead of taking buses, rideshares, flights, or other transportation that puts you in contact with other people.
Continue to operate critical business functions, such as delivery of goods and operation of businesses, with social distancing and additional safety measures in place.
Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds; Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol if soap and water are not available.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.
Avoid close contact with people who are sick.

Anyone feeling ill with symptoms similar to those associated with COVID-19 (e.g. fever, cough, shortness of breath) should:

Stay home, except to get medical care.
If you have a medical appointment, call ahead and tell them what your symptoms are. Otherwise:

Restrict activities outside your home.
Do not go to work, school, or public areas.
Avoid using public transportation, ride-sharing, or taxis.



Boulder County Public Health is coordinating with other local public health agencies, the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment (CDPHE), and the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) in response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19).
Residents can call CO-Help at 303-389-1687 or 1-877-462-2911 or email them at COHELP@RMPDC.org for more information and ask questions about COVID-19 or visit boco.org/covid-19.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/two-additional-boulder-county-residents-test-presumptive-positive-for-covid-19/





March 15, 2020




Two additional Boulder County residents test presumptive positive for COVID-19

Boulder County, CO – Two additional Boulder County residents in their 20s have tested presumptive positive for COVID-19. The disease investigation is underway and more information will be forthcoming. These are the 2nd and 3rd Boulder County residents to test positive for the disease.
The person is considered “presumptive positive” until the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) confirm the cases.
As with all reports of reportable communicable diseases, when Boulder County Public Health receives notice of a positive test, we conduct a thorough investigation to identify every person the ill person may have come in close contact with (e.g. within 6 feet), interview each of them, and provide guidance, including recommendations for isolation, quarantine, and/or testing, depending on their situation.
COVID-19 is primarily spread through respiratory droplets spread when a person with the illness coughs or sneezes. People who have prolonged contact within six feet of a person with the disease are most at risk of transmission.
To keep our community healthy, and minimize the spread of illness, Public Health officials ask residents to:

Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds; Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol if soap and water are not available.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
Stay home when you are sick.
Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.
Avoid close contact with people who are sick.

Anyone feeling ill with symptoms similar to those associated with COVID-19 (e.g. fever, cough, shortness of breath) should:

Manage their symptoms at home the same way they manage other cold symptoms. To reduce the risk of transmission, people with flu-like symptoms should remain at home to the extent possible.
If they need medical care, they should call their primary care provider and let the office know that they are concerned they might have COVID-19.
Only contact 911 for emergencies requiring immediate life-saving care; always let them know if there is concern about COVID-19 symptoms or exposure.
Restrict visits to the hospital emergency room or urgent care - only individuals needing immediate care should visit these facilities. If someone must visit an ER or urgent care facility, they should call ahead and let them know they are concerned they might have COVID-19.

Boulder County Public Health is coordinating with other local public health agencies, the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment (CDPHE), and the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) in response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19).
Residents can call CO-Help at 303-389-1687 or 1-877-462-2911 or email them at COHELP@RMPDC.org for more information and to ask questions about COVID-19 or visit boco.org/covid-19 for local information.
-BoulderCountyHealth.org-






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/parks-open-space-public-events-canceled-through-april-30-due-to-covid-19-precautions/




 


March 13, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Parks & Open Space public events canceled through April 30 due to COVID-19 precautions.

Includes all hikes, indoor programs, volunteer projects, and Fairgrounds events.
Boulder County, Colo. - As COVID-19 continues to grow as a public health concern, we want to ensure that we do our part to limit the spread of the virus. We are canceling all March and April public programs, projects, hikes, and events. As we continue to monitor the situation and follow guidelines presented by Boulder County Public Health, there is a strong possibility that future events will also be affected.
We will keep our website up-to-date and directly notify registered participants, event coordinators, and volunteers of any changes and/or cancellations of our programs, projects, and public meetings as they arise. Please note that cancellations may occur quickly pending changes in state and national COVID-19 conditions.
We are closely monitoring the developing recommendations of Boulder County Public Health, who, in turn, are working with the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) in evaluating and implementing the guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control.
Please visit our Hikes and Events and Fairgrounds calendars for specific program information.
The best and latest Boulder County information with COVID-19 updates is posted at www.BoCo.org/COVID-19.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-cancels-upcoming-programs-and-events/




 


March 12, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging Cancels Upcoming Programs and Events

Find a List of BCAAA Cancelled Events
Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Area Agency on Aging (BCAAA) has decided to postpone or cancel scheduled events with an abundance of caution to protect the health and welfare of older adults as it relates to the transmission of COVID-19. BCAAA is taking precautions with safety being the utmost priority. The health, safety, and well-being of clients, volunteers, and staff is of paramount importance. BCAA acknowledges the inconvenience these changes may cause, but believe it is in the best interest to reduce the risk of community spread and exposure.
Information on rescheduling events will be sent to current registrants once details are determined. 




Canceled Upcoming Events

News LinksNews Releases
Events Calendar
Social Media
 


 


Boulder County LinksElected Officials
Employee Access
Office Locations
Public Meetings & Webstream

Policies & Contact UsADA and EEO Notices
Contact Us
Open Records Requests
Privacy Policy

Top LinksBoulder County Connect
Oil & Gas Development
Road Closures & Construction
Towns & Cities in Boulder County

Subscribe to Updates 










Sign-up to receive Emails or SMS/Text Messages on a variety of subjects.

EmailSMS/Text Message











											Copyright © 2020. Boulder County, CO. All Rights Reserved.									









 





























Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-countys-election-audit-canvass-open-to-public/




 


March 11, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County’s Election Audit & Canvass Open to Public

Audit to check election outcomes from the 2020 Presidential Primary Election





Boulder County, Colo. – The public* is invited to observe the Boulder County Election Division’s 2020 Presidential Primary Election risk-limiting audit (RLA) beginning on Saturday, March 14 along with other post-election certification activities, as detailed below.
While Boulder County and all Colorado counties have conducted post-election audits since 2005, a risk-limiting audit is considered the “gold standard” test of election results. Colorado has been conducting risk-limiting audits since 2017 and was the first state in the nation to conduct a statewide version.
     What:  Boulder County Risk-Limiting Audit
     When:  Saturday, March 14 (see detailed schedule below)
     Where: 1750 33rd Street in Boulder – Ballot Processing Center
(check in at east-side Warehouse entrance)
     Who:    Open to public*
The risk-limiting audit is a test that helps ensure the accuracy of election results and provides the public with evidence that election outcomes reflect the votes cast by voters on their ballots. To ensure tabulation was accurate, the process reviews how a ballot’s votes were captured at the time it was processed by comparing a sample of paper ballots with digital tallies. To learn more about risk-limiting audits, see the Secretary of State’s FAQs on the RLA.
The software that facilitates the risk-limiting audit at the state level is open source, meaning anyone can examine the code themselves and other states are welcome to learn from or build upon it.
At the Boulder County Ballot Processing Center, members of the public can observe the risk-limiting audit process alongside the canvass and audit board members (the canvass board is the group of individuals who certify the election after reviewing a detailed reconciliation report on the election). Here is the schedule of activities. All activities are open to the public:
Date/Time/Activity:

Saturday, March 14, 9:30 a.m. – Canvass Board Kick-off Meeting
Saturday, March 14, 10:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. or until done – Audit Board Kick-off, Conduct Risk-Limiting Audit
Tuesday, March 24, 1:30 p.m. – Canvass Board Meeting (final presentation and sign-off of election) Edited 3/20 - This will now be remote. Please email Vote@BoulderCountyVotes.org to receive login details to watch.

Complete risk-limiting audit details and data will be available on the Secretary of State’s Audit Center after the audit is complete.
The Boulder County Elections Division expects to post complete and official election results and related documentation no later than Thursday, March 26.
* Due to the current public health advisories regarding COVID-19, we do recommend that you refrain from attending this audit in-person if you are currently ill, have recently been ill, or have recently traveled. This is to minimize the spread of illness, particularly for those people at higher risk of becoming very ill, including older adults and people with compromised immune systems. As noted above, the report of the audit results and related material will be posted on our website, and we are also available for follow-up questions on the RLA.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/area-agency-on-agings-navigating-nutrition-event-canceled/




 


March 11, 2020




Area Agency on Aging’s Navigating Nutrition event CANCELED

Co-Sponsored Event Inter-generation Conversations Also Canceled 
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging's Nutrition Navigation Information Resources: A Healthy Path Forward event scheduled at the Jewish Community Center on March 18 has been canceled and will be rescheduled. The future date and time are not known at this time.
BCAAA Healthy Aging Programs co-sponsored event, Inter-generation Conversations: Promoting Connections to Improve Mental Well-Being, scheduled for March 14 at Balfour Retirement Center has also been canceled and will be rescheduled sometime in the fall. Information on this event will be available at www.hopecoalitionboulder.org.
COVID-19 (coronavirus) and the concern for the health and well-being of older adults and caregivers is paramount. BCAAA is taking precautions with safety being the utmost priority! For more information about COVID-19, please visit www.boco.org/COVID-19.
For more information about BCAAA’s event cancelations, please contact Teresa DeAnni at 303-441-4995 or tdeanni@bouldercounty.org.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-encourages-participation-in-the-2020-census/




 


March 10, 2020




Boulder County encourages participation in the 2020 Census






The Boulder County Commissioners proclaim the importance of the 2020 Census for local federal funding and representation. The census opens to the public to complete online beginning March 12.
 
Boulder County, Colo. -- Completing the 2020 Census helps ensure a fair and appropriate distribution of federal funding for programs that support public health, education, roads and transportation, child and elder care, food assistance, emergency preparedness, disaster response, and many other critical programs and services.
An accurate census is also required for the proper allocation of representatives with the legislative bodies of the U.S. House of Representatives and Colorado State Legislature and is used in the redistricting of state and county voting districts.
“Completing the Census is enormously important,” said Boulder County Commissioner Matt Jones. “We need everyone to be counted in order to provide critical housing and community services in Boulder County as well as to meet important infrastructure and future planning needs for our county.”
The 2020 Census, a once-a-decade population count, will be open to the public to self-report on Thursday, March 12, and will continue through mid-July. Completing the form usually takes only a few minutes and can be easily accessed at www.2020Census.gov beginning March 12.
“The sooner you go online and complete the census, the sooner they will stop mailing you notices or show up at your door,” added Commissioner Jones. “It only takes a few minutes for one member of the household to fill out the census for everyone living at that address.”
In a proclamation adopted March 10, the Board of County Commissioners pledged its support for the 2020 Census by providing:

Dedicated funding and grants management for outreach and community engagement within hard-to-count communities;
Access to public spaces and digital forums to communicate the benefits of participating in the Census to all county residents;
County staff time and resources to engage with the community and encourage completion of the 2020 Census;
Collaboration with the cities and towns within Boulder County to help fill gaps in staff and collateral resources.

To learn more about the 2020 Census visit: www.2020Census.gov or www.BoCo.org/Census.
(Information is available in English and Spanish. La información está disponible en inglés y en español.)

 
Did you know?

The U.S. Census brings money to Boulder County
In Boulder County we receive almost $2,300 per person per year in federal funding based on our Census count. For every person who is not counted, we lose about $23,000 over the next decade. If we miss 100 residents, Boulder county could lose almost $2.3 million in federal funding.

The Census determines how we are represented
Census results are used to determine how many seats states get in Congress; projections indicate that Colorado will likely gain a congressional seat as a result of the 2020 Census! State and local officials also use census counts to draw boundaries for congressional districts, state legislative districts, and school districts.

Responding is easier than ever
For the first time in history, it will be possible to respond to the Census via the internet. Phone responses and mailing in a paper form are still options too. Census forms are available in Spanish and several other languages. More information on ways you can respond is available on the U.S. Census web site.

Responding is safe
Your information is protected by law and confidentiality is guaranteed. Responses are only used to produce statistics; the Census Bureau does not disclose any personal information.












Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/tomando-control-de-su-salud-clase-de-salud-y-bienestar-comienza-el-15-de-abril-en-longmont/




 


March 9, 2020




Tomando control de su salud: Clase de salud y bienestar comienza el 15 de abril en Longmont

Aprenda cómo mejorar su salud y controlar los síntomas de una enfermedad crónica. ¡Inscríbase hoy!
Condado de Boulder, Colo - La Agencia de Servicios y Programas para Adultos Mayores del Condado de Boulder ofrece un curso en español para adultos mayores que residen en el Condado de Boulder. En este curso usted aprenderá a manejar o controlar si padece de alguna condición crónica.  Este curso informativo e interactivo se llevará a cabo en el local de Intercambio Uniting Communities en Longmont todos los miércoles, comenzando el 15 de abril hasta el 20 de mayo de 1 a 3:30 p.m. El cupo es limitado. ¡Regístrese cuanto antes! Este curso es gratuito para personas mayores de 60 años.


¿QUÉ CLASE?: Tomando Control de su Salud

¿CUÁNDO?: A partir del Miércoles 15 de abril al 20 de mayo de 1 a 3:30 p.m.

¿DÓNDE? Intercambio - 1715 Iron Horse Dr. Ste 130, Longmont

Tomando control de su salud es un curso de seis semanas, que nació como resultado de  una investigación realizada en la Universidad de Stanford e incluye información sobre como trazar metas y objetivos, la resolución de problemas, técnicas para reducir el estrés, el dolor y la fatiga, cómo elegir alimentos saludables, consejos para aumentar la actividad física y cómo mejorar la comunicación con los proveedores de atención médica, familiares y amigos.
Para obtener más información o inscribirse, comuníquese con Nina Christensen, Coordinadora bilingüe de bienestar y salud por correo electrónico: nchristensen@bouldercounty.org o llamando al 303-441-3774.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/tomando-control-de-su-salud-wellness-class-for-spanish-speakers-starting-april-15th-in-longmont/




 


March 9, 2020




Tomando Control de Su Salud: Wellness Class for Spanish Speakers Starting April 15th in Longmont

Learn how to improve health and manage symptoms of a chronic disease. Registration now open. 
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging is offering a chronic conditions self-management course for Spanish speaking older adults who reside in Boulder County. This informative and interactive course will be hosted by Intercambio Uniting Communities and will be held every Wednesday from April 15 to May 20 from 1-3:30 p.m. Space is limited, and registration is highly encouraged.  This course is free of charge for those ages 60 and older.


WHAT: Tomando Control de Su Salud

WHEN: Wednesdays, April 15 to May 20 1-3:30 p.m.

WHERE: 1715 Iron Horse Dr. Ste 130, Longmont

Tomando Control de Su Salud is a six-week course, developed from research done at Stanford University and includes information about goal setting, problem solving, techniques for reducing stress, pain and fatigue, how to make healthier food choices, tips for increasing physical activity, and how to improve communication with health care providers, family and friends.
For more information or to register, please contact Nina Christensen, Bilingual Wellness Outreach Coordinator at nchristensen@bouldercounty.org or call 303-441-3774.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/election-day-unofficial-preliminary-results/




 


March 7, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Election Day Unofficial Preliminary Results

Next unofficial results update will be after 8-day cure and military ballots due date





Boulder County, Colo. –  The Boulder County Elections Division has finished tallying results for 127,164 ballots for the 2020 Presidential Primary Election and has posted preliminary unofficial results online - www.BoulderCountyVotes.org.
As a normal part of the election process, there are remaining categories of ballots left to be counted on the 9th day after the election. There is a group of ballots that will get counted and a secondary group of ballots, of which only some will get counted. These categories are outlined below.
Here are the categories of ballots we know will count. These ballots have been signature verified and the voter has been given vote credit, but their ballot has not yet been counted, nor have the votes been added to our election results. This will happen sometime on Thursday, March 12. These are:


2,993 Reserve Ballots – These ballots are held to protect voter anonymity for the below categories of ballots. We reserve multiple ballots per precinct per district style.

869 Manual Process Ballots – These are ballots that typically came in during the last 24-hours and likely had one of the following issues: replacement ballot envelope (can’t go through our sorting machine); dirty/food stained or badly folded ballot (needs duplication to run through the scanners); or poorly marked ballots that need election judges to review voter intent. 

3,395 Mail Ballots – These are ballots from voters whose signature has been approved, but whose votes have not yet been counted.

39 “VIPs” (Voter Information Protection) Ballots – These are ballots from voters who reside in precincts that have few voters with the same ballot style. Processing these ballots together helps protect voter anonymity.

1 Already Cured Ballots or Military/Overseas ballots arrived and verified – These are either ballots that had a missing signature, signature discrepancy issue, etc. that was resolved, but too late for us to process these ballots on election night (typically cured on Election Day) or military/overseas ballots that came through the secure Secretary of State portal (military/overseas transmission system) or email affidavit, have been signature verified, but have not yet been counted.

The total for these categories is 7,297 ballots.
Then, there are the following categories of ballots that have the potential to be counted at the end of the 8th day. They are:


1,276 Mail ballots that have the potential to be "cured" by voters – These are ballots where one or more of the following verification steps were incomplete: the signature on the envelope did not match, the signature on the envelope was forgotten, or an ID was required and not provided. These voters were mailed a letter no later than Thursday, March 5 (and sent an email if an email address is on their voter registration record) informing them of the status of their ballot. Additionally, they should have already received a message if they are signed up for our Ballot Track system. By law, these voters have until Wednesday, March 11 to address these items (8th day following the election).

476 UOCAVA military and overseas voter mail ballots – (outstanding number of ballots that could be returned via mail) – Most military and overseas voters who intend to vote return their ballot by Election Day. However, by law, UOCAVA mail ballots have until 8 days after the election to be received. Historically, we have received less than 5% back from this category for a Primary Election. 

53 Ballots that were picked up by Denver election officials at the Central USPS mail processing facility at 7 p.m. on election night OR ballots received by other local county clerks and exchanged in person between our offices on Wednesday at the “Front Range Great Ballot Exchange” – Plus an unknown quantity of ballots that may have been returned by the election deadline to a western slope county clerk’s office and will be transferred to our office within a few days – typically less than 25 ballots. Assuming the signatures on these mail ballots are verified, these ballots will be added to the preliminary results as well.

6 Provisional Ballots – Ballots that were voted at a Voter Service Center when a voter was in the wrong county, could not provide identification, etc.

Thus, from the above categories, there are upwards of an additional 1,836 ballots that may be added to the preliminary election results at the end of the 8-day statutory window. We anticipate adding those results to the unofficial totals late in the day on Thursday, March 12 along with 7,297 ballots that we know will be counted, highlighted above.
Note that ballot processing during the end stages of an election is a very manual process and ballots can move from one status category to another. Many of these figures come from hand counts and are subject to change.
If a voter would like to check to confirm that we received and processed their mail ballot, they can check online at www.BoulderCountyVotes.org under Ballot Track. While checking on the status of their mail ballot, the Elections Division encourages all voters to include a notification method for the system for future elections.
Tentative summary schedule for remaining results postings:
Thursday, March 12 – 7,297 ballots + the “potential” categories listed above (up to another 1,836 ballots) DATE* –  Certified Election Results posted/refreshed as certified
* This date is dependent on approval from the state, once the statewide Risk Limiting Audit is complete.
 
 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-seeking-rfps-for-services-for-2020-2021/




 


March 5, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging Seeking RFPs for Services for 2020-2021

Pre-proposal Meeting on Wednesday, March 25
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging (BCAAA) is seeking proposals from qualified organizations interested in contracting with BCAAA to provide the following services for older adults in Boulder County: assistive technology, caregiver counseling, caregiver respite, chores, legal assistance, mental health counseling, transportation, and services for the blind and visually impaired.  
Up to $630,000 will be awarded to organizations that provide the following services or programs in each of the categories:


Assistive Technology Education: Services related to assistive technology promotion, provision, and education geared at teaching older adults about how to use technology.

Assistive Technology: Assistive Technology goods or devices.

Caregiver Counseling: Counseling to caregivers to assist them in making decisions and solving problems relating to their caregiver roles.

Caregiver Respite: Services which offer temporary, substitute supports or living arrangements for care recipients in order to provide a brief period of relief or rest for caregivers.

Chores: Chore services are those services designed to increase the safety of older adults living at home.

Legal Assistance: Legal advice, counseling, and representation provided by an attorney or other person acting under the supervision of an attorney.

Mental Health Counseling: Counseling is the provision of advice or support to assist older adults to address issues, concerns, or make decisions.

Transportation: Transportation is travel to or from one location to another in a vehicle.

Transportation – Assisted: Assistance and transportation, including escort, to a person who has difficulties.

Education – Blind and Visually Impaired: A supportive service to assist older adults who are blind and visually impaired through education and training services.

Screening – Blind and Visually Impaired: The process of administering a standard instrument or tool to determine an older adult’s needs.

The official Request for Proposal is available for completion beginning on March 16. To access the official RFP, please visit www.bidnetdirect.com/colorado and https://bouldercountyaaa.oaa-sys.com/rfp/public/.
There is a mandatory Pre-Proposal Meeting on Wednesday, March 25 for those planning to complete an RFP. The Mandatory Pre-Proposal meeting will be held at the Boulder County Clerk & Recorder's Office, Houston Room, 1750 33rd Street, Boulder, from 1 to 3 p.m.
The RFP bidding process closes at 2 p.m. on April 17.
The mission of the Boulder County Area Agency on Aging is to deliver, fund, and advocate for services that promote well-being, independence, and dignity for older adults, people with disabilities, family and informal caregivers, and veterans in Boulder County.
Questions about this the bidding process will need to be directed to purchasing@bouldercounty.org. More information about the BCAAA can be directed to Carlene Okiyama at cokiyama@bouldercounty.org or 303-441-1598.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/open-house-carolyn-holmberg-preserve-at-rock-creek-farm-management-plan-update/




 


February 28, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Open House: Carolyn Holmberg Preserve at Rock Creek Farm Management Plan Update

Wednesday, March 11, 4:30-6:30 p.m. in Louisville
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Parks & Open Space will host an open house on the management plan update for Carolyn Holmberg Preserve at Rock Creek Farm. Staff will share information and gather input on open space resource uses and activities on the property and proposed topic areas to focus on in the update.
A presentation at 5 p.m. will be followed by a question-and-answer period, then an opportunity to walk around and browse maps and posters of proposed update topics, share concerns and ideas with staff, and submit comments. All feedback received will help inform next steps in developing the plan update.

Wednesday, March 11, 4:30–6:30 p.m. Louisville Recreation and Senior Center 900 W. Via Appia Way

For more information and to leave a comment visit boco.org/CHPplan or contact Resource Planner Marni Ratzel at mratzel@bouldercounty.org or 303-678-6271.
 







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/us-287-isabelle-road-intersection-safety-improvement-project-open-house-march-3/




 


February 27, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



US 287 & Isabelle Road Intersection Safety Improvement Project open house March 3

Public invited to review final design and provide feedback for construction
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Public Works will host an open house for the public to review final designs for planned safety improvements to the US 287 and Isabelle Road intersection. This is the second public meeting for the project to improve safety and operations by reconstructing the intersection and widening Isabelle Road both east and west of the highway. The project is funded with CDOT Highway Safety Funds and Boulder County’s Countywide Transportation Sales Tax passed by voters in 2007.
 What: US 287/Isabelle Road Intersection Safety Improvements Open House   When: Tuesday, March 3, 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. Where: Erie Community Center                 450 Powers St., Erie, CO
As currently proposed, the project will:

Widen Isabelle Road from 109th Street (Town of Erie) to 800 feet west of US 287Stripe new buffered bike lanes both east and west on Isabelle Road across the intersection
Lengthen the existing turn lanes on Isabelle Road to reduce conflicts for waiting vehicles and add dual left-turn lanes for westbound traffic
Replace existing traffic signals installed on raised islands with new pedestrian crossings on all four corners
Install improved lighting to improve visibility within the project limits.
Realign the Isabelle Road intersection with109th Street to improve sight distance for both southbound and westbound traffic.
Construct new wetlands northeast of the intersection to mitigate project impacts and improve wildlife habitat.

Preliminary design exhibits and meeting materials are available at www.US287Isabelle.com. Staff will be available to answer questions and take comments. Construction is anticipated to start in 2021.
For more information, contact Andrew Barth at abarth@bouldercounty.org or 303-441-1032.
All current Boulder County Transportation project information is available at www.BoCoConeZones.com.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/navigating-nutrition-information-and-resources-a-healthy-path-forward-conference-registration-now-ongoing/




 


February 27, 2020




Navigating Nutrition Information and Resources: A Healthy Path Forward! Conference Registration Now Open

Learn Cutting-Edge Nutrition Information and About Resources for Older Adults and Caregivers
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging invites residents to the Third Annual Nutrition Conference to take place on March 18 from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
This event that takes place at the Jewish Community Center will feature a resource fair that highlights the essential services related to meals, assistance, and education. Representatives from meal sites and home delivered meals, food pantries, grocery delivery, financial assistance, preparation, nutrition education are available to provide information.

What: Navigating Nutrition Information and Resources: A Healthy Path Forward! Conference
When: March 18 from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
Where: Jewish Community Center, 6007 Oreg Avenue, Boulder

This is a free conference and light breakfast refreshments will be provided. Space is limited and registration is required. To register, visit www.boco.org/2020NutritionConference.
A presentation “Trust Your Gut: How Diet Influences the Microbiome-gut-brain axis and Mental Health” will be presented by Dr. Christopher Lowry at the event. Followed by brief presentations from the nutrition and food leaders in Boulder County.
Dr. Lowry is an Associate Professor in the Department of Integrative Physiology and Center for Neuroscience at the University of Colorado Boulder. His research focuses on understanding how stress affects the microbiome-gut-brain axis and the prevention and treatment of anxiety and chronic conditions such as allergies, asthma, and inflammatory bowel disease.
For information, please contact Teresa DeAnni, Healthy Aging Programs Manager at tdeanni@bouldecounty.org or call 303-441-4995.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-awards-sustainable-food-and-agricultural-funds/




 


February 25, 2020




Boulder County Awards Sustainable Food and Agricultural Funds






Boulder County, Colo. - On Tuesday, Feb. 25, the Boulder County Commissioners announced the recipients of the 2020 Sustainable Food and Agricultural Funds to the following farms Ollin Farms, McCauley Family Farms, Cure Organic Farms, Aspen Moon Farms, Cottonwood Farm, Black Cat Farms, and Skypilot Farms.
Boulder County invited farmers, agricultural producers, the private sector, and non-profit organizations to apply for funding to accelerate and launch environmental sustainability projects that benefit the food and agricultural system of Boulder County. The funding opportunity was provided to impact four broad areas within local food and agriculture including:

on-farm regenerative and soil health practices;
farmer education;
conferences and workshops;
on-farm and farmers market infrastructure; and
sustainable local food and crop production.

The Sustainable Food and Agricultural Fund in 2020 will be supported financially by the Sustainability Tax revenue. In November 2016, voters approved the Sustainability Tax ballot initiative to allocate a portion of sales and use tax revenue to fund sustainability infrastructure and programs. From the Sustainability Tax a portion (roughly $305,000) was set aside to address the priority needs of local farms and agricultural producers.
The 2020 grant recipient’s projects are primarily focused on farm infrastructure and equipment specifically that is needed to adopt cover crops, perennials plantings, pasture cropping, and regeneration, grain production, no till operations, and regenerative grazing practices.
“It’s impressive to see all the efforts Boulder County farmers and producers are already taking to promote soil health and support regenerative agriculture,” commented Commissioner Elise Jones. “Through the local food and agriculture funding, we are able to celebrate these current practices and encourage even more innovative, sustainable agricultural practices on Boulder County lands.”
Despite this being the first year for the Sustainable Food and Agricultural Fund the county received 42 applications and a total of $2.5 million dollars in requests. This high interest level demonstrates the need for this fund across the county.
 
Recipients and projects selected for award:
Ollin Farms Project 95 | $40,000: The mission of Project 95 is to turn the south side of Longmont into a demonstration of what is possible when farmers, scientists, community members, students, and neighbors work together with the common goal of building health and resiliency into our agricultural lands. The funding of $40,000 is geared to support five on-farm demonstration areas including conservation plan implementation, sustainable carbon cycling, community-based learning opportunities, pollinator and bird sanctuaries, and eco system data collection.
Multi-Species Pasture Regeneration at McCauley Family Farms | $40,000: The McCauley Family Farms project of $40,000 funds infrastructure to facilitate regenerative production and soil-building efforts. Specifically, the funds will go to two multi-species pasture regeneration units: two shade structures, two water trailers, and two solar trailers. These regeneration units will facilitate soil building on 80 acres and also be used for on farm demonstrations hopefully spreading the practice across the county.
Increasing Agro-Ecological Diversity at Cure Organic Farm | $41,416: Cure’s Organic Farm’s funding of $41,416 is supporting the increase of agro-ecological habitat of the farm by adding regenerative agriculture practices and in turn increasing soil health. Cure plans to use funds to plant wind breaks to decrease soil erosion and create native pollinator habitat. The farm will also increase soil organic matter and microbiology by increasing use of irrigated cover crops paid for by the fund. Currently the farm has no way to intercrop green manures into their production beds or irrigate cover crops beyond drip irrigation. Purchasing of equipment and irrigation infrastructure through the fund will allow the farm to grow soil health throughout the season.
Heritage Grains & Cover Cropping = Soil Health and Valuable Crop at Aspen Moon Farm | $55,000: Aspen Moon will use $55,000 of this grant to increase edible grain production and address the need for good, regenerative agriculture and soil health practices through the purchase of equipment. This multipurpose equipment meets three specific needs: rotational cover cropping for soil health, production of local heritage grains, regenerative seed saving. The production of local heritage grains also seeks to address the need for sustainable local food and crop production. The project will double Aspen Moon’s cover crop acreage from 13 to 26 acres and allow for an estimated 45 tons of heritage grain production. Aspen Moon will also offer on-farm training for local farms demonstrating how the equipment can be used to improve soil health while producing a sustainable local crop.
Brown to Green Soil Health Project at Cottonwood Farms | $46,300: The Cottonwood Farm “Brown to Green Regenerative Soil Health Project” funded at $46,300 represents a shift in vision from seeing the beauty of brown freshly tilled soil to seeing the promise of covered and undisturbed soil with all of the unseen life underneath for the farm. Through this funded project Cottonwood Farms will test and demonstrate the use of basic soil health principles and their adaptability to our local climate using methods and tools that are scalable to both larger and smaller operations. The goals of the project are to demonstrate viable agricultural production while (1) minimizing soil disturbance, (2) keeping soil covered as much as possible, (3) keeping a living root in the ground as long as possible, and (4) add diversity through cover and companion crops. To implement these principles Cottonwood Farms will have funded equipment in the form of a no till drill, cover crop roller, modifications needed to subsoiler, and to convert row crop planter to no till.
Pasture Cropping: Organic Grain Production in Perennial Pastures at Black Cat Farms | $43,500: Funding of $43,500 to Black Cat Organic Farm will trial the regenerative agricultural practice of pasture cropping, an innovative agricultural growing system new to Boulder County. Pasture cropping integrates annual cereal grain or vegetable production into perennial sod fields with maximum diversity and as little disturbance as possible. The funding will be used for farm infrastructure, equipment, and supplies to make this new project a reality for Black Cat Farms.
Regenerative Grazing Project at Sky Pilot Farms | $40,000: For Sky Pilot Farms to increase regenerative grazing the funding of $40,000 will go to more mobile fencing, water transport, and access to shade. Sudden changes in weather, carrying capacity of a paddock, or seasonal trends can change what these movement need to look like on a year-to-year basis. SkyPilot Farm needs to have enough infrastructure to set up several movements worth of paddock to have the ability to act quickly on arising information in the field such as weather and general health of the pasture. This project benefits Boulder County sustainability goals in three key areas: health of riparian areas, a focus on pollinators, and encouraging native grasslands and wildlife.
Boulder County is proud to have so many members of the agriculture and food community interested in projects to create a more sustainable food system for generations to come.
For more information about Boulder County’s sustainability mission and to learn about other programs, visit www.boco.org/Sustainability. For questions about this grant funding in particular, please contact Tim Broderick at tbroderick@bouldercounty.org or 720-564-2238.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/election-open-house-ballot-processing-center-tours/




 


February 25, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Election Open House / Ballot Processing Center Tours

Ballot processing tours scheduled for Feb. 28 and March 2. Students encouraged to attend!





Boulder County, Colo. – Boulder County Clerk & Recorder Molly Fitzpatrick will host  ballot processing center tours on Friday, Feb. 28 and Monday, March 2 at the Elections Division Ballot Processing Center.
     What: Elections Division Open House/Ballot Processing Center Tours     When: Friday, Feb. 28, 12:30 – 2 p.m. with tours approximately                  every 30 minutes                Monday, March 3, 4:30 – 6 p.m. with tours approximately                 every 30 minutes RSVP: Encouraged but not required. RSVP at:  https://boco.org/2020ElectionTours     Where: 1750 33rd Street in Boulder – Elections Division                    Ballot Processing Center (look for signs)
These tours offer people interested in local elections the opportunity to see how ballots are processed, understand how signatures are verified on mail ballots, and learn about how ballot resolution works, among other ballot processing procedures and safeguards.
Visitors will be able to observe workers processing ballots for the Tuesday, March 3 Presidential Primary Election. Students are strongly encouraged to attend to learn more about the elections process. Tours take about 30 minutes with questions.
If you have any questions or would like more information about the upcoming election, please visit www.BoulderCountyVotes.org or call 303-413-7740.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-valley-comprehensive-plan-mid-term-update/





February 22, 2020




Boulder Valley Comprehensive Plan mid-term update






Thank you for your interest in previous Boulder Valley Comprehensive Plan updates. The City of Boulder has recently started the Boulder Valley Comprehensive Plan (BVCP) 2020 mid-term update. As a partner to the BVCP, we support the city’s efforts to help the community create and preserve a sustainable future for the Boulder Valley and a high quality of life.
In the mid-term update, the public may submit requests for changes in the BVCP regarding land use and / or policy that do not involve significant city and county resources, making only minor additions or clarifications to the policy section. Some of the potential changes that are considered in the mid-term update include the following:

Changes to the Land Use Map
Changes to the Area I,II,III Map
Planning Area boundary changes
Minor edits to the policy section (Ch. III)
Minor text edits
Changes to the Subcommunity and Area Plan section (Ch. V)
Changes to the Master Plan and Program summaries (Ch. VI)
Changes to the Urban Service Criteria and Standards (Ch. VII)

BVCP request forms and additional information can be found on the city’s mid-term update website. The submission deadline is Monday, March 2, 2020.
For any questions directed to the city, please contact Dana Sparks at sparksd@bouldercolorado.gov. If you have questions related to the county’s role in this process, please contact me at adelosrios@bouldercounty.org.
Alberto De Los Rios | Planner IHe / Him / HisBoulder County Community Planning & Permitting (formerly Land Use and Transportation) We’ve become a new department!2045 13th Street | Boulder, CO 80302Direct Phone: 720-564-2623 | Main: 303-441-3930adelosrios@bouldercounty.orgwww.BoulderCounty.org






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/red-hill-and-rabbit-mountain-elk-herd-management-plan-drafts-released-for-public-review/




 


February 21, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Red Hill and Rabbit Mountain elk herd management plan drafts released for public review.

Public comment accepted online and at two upcoming public hearings.
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Parks & Open Space has released the draft "Red Hill Elk Management Plan" and the "Ron Stewart Preserve at Rabbit Mountain Elk and Vegetation Management Plan (2017-2020) – Addendum" for public review and comment. 
Parks & Open Space staff will host two public hearings to review the draft plans and hear public comment. Public comments will be accepted at the meetings and online. The plans and comment forms can be found at boco.org/elk.

Parks & Open Space Advisory CommitteeThursday, Feb. 27, 6:30 p.m.Boulder County Courthouse – Commissioners’ Hearing Room1325 Pearl Street, Boulder
Board of County CommissionersMonday, March 30, 4:30 p.m.Boulder County Courthouse – Commissioners’ Hearing Room1325 Pearl Street, Boulder

The Red Hill elk herd makes use of county-owned properties closed to the public on either side of US 36 between Heil Valley Ranch and Table Mountain. The area has been historically utilized by the herd during fall and winter after migrating down from its summer range at higher elevations. However, a growing number of elk has recently stopped migrating and now spends the summer at low elevation on county-owned properties and the Table Mountain area. The elk herd’s rapid population growth has the potential to cause extensive damage to the highly diverse native plants and wildlife habitat of this area. Additionally, this area has been noted as a dangerous highway elk crossing by the Colorado Department of Transportation with numerous vehicle-wildlife collisions.
The Ron Stewart Preserve at Rabbit Mountain Elk & Vegetation Management Plan was approved in 2017 to allow controlled hunting at Ron Stewart Preserve through January 2020. The plan has worked to reduce the number of elk and discourage use of Ron Stewart Preserve, but there are more elk on the open space property than called for in the plan. Staff would like to extend the plan until management goals are met.
For more information please visit boco.org/elk or contact Wildlife Biologist Dave Hoerath at dhoerath@bouldercounty.org or 303-678-6204.
 











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/people-engaged-in-raising-leaders-to-offer-leadership-program-beginning-march-10-2020/




 


February 20, 2020




People Engaged in Raising Leaders to Offer Leadership Program Beginning March 10

Tuesday Classes Provide Leadership 101 Training for Six Weeks
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Community Services Department is launching a new leadership 101 training course for interested participants and residents of Boulder County. The classes are hosted by Community Action Partner’s People Engaged in Raising Leaders (PERL) and seeks to empower participants on their journey to increasing leadership skills and knowledge. The classes will be held for a six-week period weekly beginning on Tuesday, March 10 from 6 p.m. to 8:30 pm.

What: PERL Leadership 101 Program
When: Tuesdays from March 10 to April 14
Time: 6-8:30 p.m.

Topics covered in the course will include: intro to leadership, communication, active learning and listening, decision making & delegation, culture and resiliency, and self-care. Leadership 101 looks to connect people in the community with the opportunity to expand skills. Participants will connect with community partners as their journey continues to apply leadership in work, at home, school, or community.
Leadership 101 is a program open to the public. Classes seek to engage persons that might not otherwise can gain leadership skills or classes. The course will consist of guest speakers, guided conversations, interactive class discussions, and activities.
For information and to register for the program, please contact Belinda M. Hearn, PERL Coordinator at bhearn@bouldercounty.org or 303-441-3956.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/county-commissioners-to-consider-oil-and-gas-2020-moratorium-extension/




 


February 19, 2020




Board of Boulder County Commissioners to Consider Oil and Gas Moratorium Extension

Staff proposes revised schedule for updating oil and gas regulations that stretches beyond March 28, 2020 moratorium end date.
Boulder County, Colo. - In response to concerns voiced by members of the public and the Board of County Commissioners (BOCC), county staff is proposing a revised schedule for the roll-out and review of revisions to Article 12 of the Boulder County Land Use Code addressing oil and gas development in unincorporated Boulder County.

The new schedule contemplates finalization of regulations in July and would require an extension of the existing moratorium on processing oil and gas permit applications, which is currently set to expire on March 28.

At the Jan. 28 public meeting, staff initially proposed an ambitious schedule for release of new draft regulations, public comment, and hearings to come before the Boulder County Planning Commission and the Board of County Commissioners. The schedule was designed to complete the regulations, which are being revised in response to the passage of Senate Bill 19-181, before the current moratorium on accepting and processing applications for new oil and gas development expires on March 28.
Since the January meeting, members of the public and the BOCC have voiced concerns that the schedule does not allow sufficient time for review and comment by the public of a very complex and technical set of regulatory issues. Additionally, the proposed timeline overlaps with extensive oil and gas rulemakings at the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (currently scheduled for April 29 and May 6-8, 13-15, and 27-29), which county staff and interested county residents and stakeholders will be deeply involved with.
Consequently, staff has proposed a revised schedule for the Article 12 update. Addressing the need for more time to review and comment -- and avoiding overlap with the state rulemakings -- the revised schedule will not meet the current moratorium end date. At a public hearing is scheduled for March 2, the BOCC will consider an extension of the current moratorium through the end of July 2020.





The proposed, revised schedule is as follows (all meetings are open to the public and will be held in the Commissioners' Hearing Room.* Meetings listed as hearings will include public testimony (as noted):

Monday, March 2 at 2 p.m. – Board of County Commissioners’ Public Hearing to consider whether to extend or otherwise amend the temporary moratorium on Boulder County’s processing of applications for oil and gas development and seismic testing in the unincorporated county, which is set to expire on March 28. Written testimony only will be accepted for this hearing. Comments emailed to oilgascomment@bouldercounty.org by 5 p.m., Feb. 28, will be made available to the commissioners prior to the March 2 hearing.
Monday, April 6 at 4 p.m. – Public hearing for Planning Commission to receive public testimony on the proposed oil and gas regulations. Public testimony only; no action by Planning Commission. Because of heightened public interest in participation at this hearing, an online advance sign-up system will be used for public testimony.
Wednesday, April 8 at 1 p.m. – Public meeting for Planning Commission discussion and recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners or direction to staff to modify regulations. No additional public testimony. (Note: In observance of Passover, this meeting will finish by sundown.)
(If necessary) Monday, April 27 at 4 p.m. – Planning Commission public meeting continued, if needed. No additional public testimony.
May – County staff participation at Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission Rulemaking Hearings (currently scheduled for April 29 and May 6-8, 13-15, and 27-29).
Thursday, June 18 at 4 p.m. – Public hearing for the Board of County Commissioners (BOCC) to receive public testimony on the proposed oil and gas regulations. Public testimony only; no action by BOCC. Because of heightened public interest, there will be an online advance sign-up for speakers at this hearing.
Thursday, June 25 at 4 p.m.– Public meeting for BOCC discussion. Adoption of regulations or direction to staff to modify regulations. No additional public testimony.
(If necessary) Tuesday, July 7 at 1 p.m. – BOCC public proceedings continued, if needed, for BOCC to review staff changes to the regulations; adoption of regulations. No additional public testimony.
(If necessary) Thursday, July 9 at 3 p.m. - BOCC public proceedings continued, if needed, for BOCC to review staff changes to the regulations; adoption of regulations. No additional public testimony.
(If necessary) Tuesday, July 14 at 1 p.m. - BOCC public proceedings continued, if needed, for BOCC to review staff changes to the regulations; adoption of regulations. No additional public testimony.
July 31, 2020 – Staff recommended end of moratorium, subject to action taken by the Board of County Commissioners on March 2.

Updates to the schedule will be posted on the County’s Oil & Gas website (www.boco.org/OilGas). In addition to participating at Planning Commission and Board of County Commissioner hearings, comments and information can be emailed to oilgascomment@bouldercounty.org.





*Commissioners' Hearing Room, 3rd Floor, County Courthouse, 1325 Pearl Street, Boulder.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/transportation-master-plan-update-adopted-by-county-commissioners/




 


February 18, 2020




Transportation Master Plan Update adopted by County Commissioners

Boulder County, Colo. - The Board of County Commissioners approved the recently updated Boulder County Transportation Master Plan (TMP) at a public hearing held on Tuesday, Feb. 18. The technical report and the summary are available at www.BoCoTMP.com.
“A lot has changed in Boulder County since the TMP was last updated in 2012 - including increasing commuter traffic and air quality concerns - which is why a fresh examination of this document was so important,” said County Commissioner Elise Jones. “We have a clear understanding of the work we need to do thanks to the invaluable collaborative efforts and these updates are a crucial part of the county’s plans for addressing the climate crisis.”
The TMP update process began in August 2018. Initial activities included developing a State of the System report, kick-off public meetings, and an online survey to understand the priorities of the community. Initial activities also included data analysis such as a Bicycle Level of Traffic Stress analysis, crash data, traffic pattern data, and forecasting data.
In March 2019, draft recommendations based on the community’s input and the results of the data analysis were released for public review. Several public meetings were held at this time to get input from the public and other stakeholders on the draft documents. In October 2019, additional draft documents were released for review and comment.
At the Planning Commission’s Dec. 18, 2019 session, the Planning Commission unanimously recommended that the Boulder County Board of County Commissioners adopt the Transportation Master Plan.
Key additions of the 2019 TMP include:

Inclusion of a Vision Zero policy and goal of achieving zero deaths or serious injuries that are the result of traffic crashes by 2035.
Updated demographic, land use, and travel patterns; Includes current data as well as projections to 2040.
Considerations for advanced mobility technology, such as autonomous vehicles, electric bicycles, electric vehicles, and ride-hailing service.
Inclusion of Performance Metrics to track progress towards TMP goals.
A goal to develop a network of multiuse paths that provide off-street bicycle connections between regional destinations in Boulder County.
Strategies to increase mobility options between Boulder County and counties with increasing commuters, such as Weld and Larimer counties.

"We have big transportation challenges in Boulder County including roads, buses, and rail. This Transportation Master Plan update provides the vision and steps to meet this challenge,” said County Commissioner Matt Jones.
The TMP’s recent efforts includes updates to five key strategies, including planned and conceptual projects, travel patterns, and project cost estimates. The five key strategies are based on the vision and goals from the Boulder County Comprehensive Plan:

Develop a multimodal transportation system
Create a complete trip
Invest in key transportation corridors
Increase accessibility
Enhance mountain-area connections

Now that the TMP is complete, Boulder County will begin developing an implementation plan. Anticipated TMP implementation priorities for 2020 include:

Sharing the TMP vision with the community.
Exploring options to increase funding to complete projects identified in the TMP.
Evaluate opportunities to expand partnerships to improve existing and future transit service throughout Boulder County, including regional Bus Rapid Transit corridors and Northwest Rail.
Developing Vision Zero Action Plan.
Creating baseline measurements for Performance Measures.
Incorporating safety, resilience, equity, performance measures into project prioritization and planning processes.
Updating the Multimodal Transportation Standards.

“As we move into the implementation phase of the updated TMP, we look forward to continued input from the community,” said County Commissioner Deb Gardner. “As always, we look to our residents for their knowledge to help inform our engineers, planners, and leadership on how Boulder County can continue to improve.”
For more information, contact Stacey Proctor, project manager, at 303-441-1107 or at sproctor@bouldercounty.org.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/floodplain-partners-pilot-program-applications-due-feb-28/




 


February 13, 2020

Media Contacts:
Kelly Watson, Boulder County Transportation, Floodplain Specialist, 720-564-2652
Andrew Barth, Boulder County Transportation, Communications, 303-441-1032



Floodplain Partners pilot program applications due Feb. 28

Homeowners interested in reducing flood risk to their property are all encouraged to apply





Boulder County, Colo. - Applications for Boulder County’s Floodplain Partner’s pilot home elevation, relocation, or buy-out program are due by Friday, Feb. 28. Homeowners interested in reducing flood risk to their property are all encouraged to apply by filling out an interest survey. Funding from the grant allows Boulder County to complete site-specific evaluations for unincorporated county property owners who are interested in applying for federal assistance to reduce flood risk through property elevation, relocation, or acquisition. The site-specific evaluations conducted as part of the pilot program will assist property owners in determining whether they are eligible for this federal assistance. For some eligible properties, the pilot program may result in applications for federal assistance.
Floodplain Partners will assist with the financial costs of evaluating the benefits and costs of completing one of these three flood mitigation strategies:

Home elevation to physically raise structures to provide room for flood water to flow underneath the home.
Home relocation to move structures from their current location to another spot on the property that is out of the floodplain, if available.
Buy-out to completely remove the home and restore the land beneath it. After a property is purchased, it would become public land that is maintained by the county and unavailable for development.

The site-specific evaluations will determine which mitigation strategy(ies) are feasible on a property. The evaluations could include a property appraisal, completion of an elevation certificate, review of building construction detail and preliminary engineering designs. In addition, the county will help identify if the strategy(ies) would be eligible for FEMA’s Flood Mitigation Assistance (FMA) program funding and submit an application on behalf of the property owner for funding to help complete the actual work.
Property owners who can benefit most from the Floodplain Partners pilot program include:

Properties that have experienced flood damage.
Properties that are or have been exposed to high amounts of erosion.
Properties located in the regulatory floodplain.
Properties in areas of high wildfire risk that are also near rivers or creeks (due to the risk of post-fire flooding).

Property owners can use the county’s online property search application to determine if their home is in the floodplain. Property owners interested in volunteering for the pilot program are encouraged to complete an online interest survey to help the county learn more. Those who complete the survey will be contacted by a program representative after review of the information. Participation in the Floodplain Partners pilot program is completely voluntary. Funding is limited, and therefore property evaluations, Benefit-Cost analyses, and FMA program funding application submissions will be reserved for those properties/property owners that are most likely to be eligible for FMA funding.
For more information about Floodplain Partners, contact Stacey Proctor, project manager at 303-441-1107 or email sproctor@bouldercounty.org. You can also visit the program website at www.boco.org/floodplain-partners. 

For more information, contact Kelly Watson, Boulder County Transportation Floodplain Specialist, at kwatson@bouldercounty.org or 720-564-22652.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-to-screen-insurance-companies-for-investments-in-clean-energy-vs-fossil-fuels/




 


February 13, 2020




Boulder County to screen insurance companies for investments in clean energy vs. fossil fuels






Board of County Commissioners adopts proclamation urging insurance companies to divest from fossil fuels and end underwriting of extraction or use of fossil fuels





(Boulder County, Colo.) -- Under the banner of Insure Our Future, Not Climate Change,* Boulder County has joined an effort to urge insurance companies to divest from fossil fuel industries and move away from underwriting activities that fuel the climate crisis. Specifically, the county is seeking to avoid indirectly funding carbon-intensive, fossil fuel infrastructure projects by carefully considering the types of investments held by companies that insure Boulder County assets.

Boulder County Commissioners Deb Gardner (chair), Elise Jones, and Matt Jones (vice-chair)

In a proclamation adopted Feb. 13, 2020, the Board of County Commissioners pledged to examine the types of energy investments insurance companies make as part of the county’s analysis of what makes an insurance company “fit” with Boulder County’s commitment to sustainability and climate action.
The move coincides with Fossil Fuel Divestment Day, a national distributed day of action focused on divesting public funds, such as state pension funds and universities, from fossil fuels.

Insurance companies are supposed to protect us from catastrophic risks. Yet when it comes to the largest threat to humanity – climate change – insurers are fueling dangerous global warming by perpetuating our dependence on dirty fossil fuels.
– Insure our Future website

Investments collected through insurance premiums often fly under the radar when it comes to funding fossil fuel activities, yet the 40 largest United States insurers hold combined investments of over $450 billion in the coal, oil, gas, and electric utility sectors. As part of the new policy directive, county purchasing and risk management staff are empowered to screen potential insurers for investments that underwrite companies or projects perpetuating the extraction and use of fossil fuels and to utilize that information as a determining factor in making recommendations to the board about potential insurers.
Ideally, a position like the one taken by Boulder County can lead to greater investments in renewable energy and alternative fuels projects that serve to address the environmental consequences of climate change.
At Boulder County, we’re continually looking at ways to reduce our carbon footprint and invest in energy choices that help combat the escalating impacts of climate change. By making it a preference to invest in companies that choose not to do business with some of the main drivers of climate change, we help further our goal of minimizing our contributions to the climate crisis and support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
– Boulder County Commissioner Elise Jones
Like private insureds, Boulder County has a choice in selecting which insurance companies we do business with. Only by refusing to direct money to businesses that finance investments that exacerbate greenhouse gas emissions and global warming do we begin to bring about real change in the types of renewable energy sources we want to see supported with county funds.
– Boulder County Commissioners Chair Deb Gardner 
Fossil fuels investments are bad investments, just look at all the coal company bankruptcies. And that does not count the human and environmental toll of their pollution. By making this decision, we call on the insurance industry to take action against pollution and climate change by ending their underwriting of fossil fuel companies.
– Boulder County Commissioners Vice-Chair Matt Jones 





*From the Insure our Future website:
Insure Our Future is a campaign demanding that U.S. insurers stop making climate change worse by ending insurance for and investments in fossil fuels, starting with coal and tar sands projects and companies. We are part of the global Unfriend Coal campaign, which promotes a rapid shift of the insurance industry from supporting and financing fossil fuels to accelerating the transition to a clean energy economy.













Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage












Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/caregiving-symposium-wednesday-april-8-2020/




 


February 11, 2020




Boulder County Invites Residents to Caregiving Symposium — Wednesday, April 8, 2020

Event provides education and support for family/informal caregivers of older adults
Boulder County, Colo. - The 2020 Caregiving Symposium, hosted by the Boulder County Area Agency on Aging and partner sponsors Boulder Medical Center and TRU Community Care, will be held on Wednesday, April 8, 2020 at the Boulder Jewish Community Center.
Boulder County residents who provide care for older relatives, partners, or friends are invited to this event. The symposium provides informal and family caregivers the opportunity to visit with service providers, enhance caregiving knowledge, receive support, and connect with each other.


What: Caregiving Symposium 2020

When: Wednesday, April 8 from 8:30 a.m. - 4 p.m.

Where: Boulder Jewish Community Center, 6007 Oreg Ave., Boulder, CO

The Caregiving Symposium will feature an introductory keynote address with Jane Barton, author of Caregiving for the Genius on Collaborative Care – A Life-Giving Approach to Caregiving.
The event will include more than 80 local service providers and expert workshop presentations on topics such as dementia care, legal and financial issues, self-care, hard conversations about care needs, addressing caregiver grief, and technology for caregivers. The event will also have facilitated support sessions, on-site massage therapists (available on a first come, first served appointment basis), and raffle prizes.
Participation is $5 with lunch included in the cost. Register online at https://bit.ly/2GU01S6 or call 303-441-1685. Registration will close on March 27, or when the event is at capacity. Financial assistance for respite care (substitute older adult care) is available. Please call 303-441-1617 to learn more.
For more information, contact Juliette Kershner with Boulder County Area Agency on Aging at 303-678-6116 or infocaregiver@bouldercounty.org.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-equipment-testing-successfully-completed-for-march-3-presidential-primary-election/




 


February 7, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County equipment testing successfully completed for March 3 Presidential Primary Election






Boulder County, Colo. – Ballots and equipment to be used in the county’s upcoming Presidential Primary Election passed a required Logic and Accuracy Test (LAT) held this week.
Representatives from the local Democratic and Republican parties took part in testing at the Boulder County Clerk & Recorder's Office and confirmed the equipment’s ability to properly read ballots and correctly tabulate votes.
The LAT also confirmed ballots are properly printed for the election and the equipment is accurately calibrated to process ballots. Each type of ballot and all ballot styles were tested. In all, 1,540 ballots were tested, including 1,490 mail ballots and 50 ballots generated using ballot marking devices.
Each piece of equipment used during the LAT has been cleared of test votes and reset to zero, ensuring the equipment is ready to count live ballots for the Primary Election.
Results and test records are available for review at BoulderCountyVotes.org under the Election Information section.
Boulder County voters can also visit BoulderCountyVotes.org to register to vote, check and update their voter registration, view ballot content and learn more about local elections.
They can also call 303-413-7740 for more information or visit one of three Boulder County Clerk & Recorder's Office branches: 1750 33rd St. in Boulder; 529 Coffman St. in Longmont; or 1376 Miners Drive in Lafayette. Office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-offers-new-diabetes-prevention-program/




 


February 6, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging Offers New Diabetes Prevention Program

Information Session about Program to Take Place on Feb. 26
Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Area Agency on Aging will be offering a new Diabetes Prevention Program for residents in February at the Boulder County offices. This national program developed by the Centers for Disease Control intends to empower participants with prediabetes get the support needed to learn how to make changes that will last.
More than 84.1 million people, or one out of three American adults, have prediabetes. In Boulder County, more than 65,000 people have prediabetes with 90% unaware of the condition. Prediabetes occurs when blood sugar is elevated, but not high enough to be diagnosed as diabetes. Prediabetes increases risk of developing Type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke. Prevention methods such as losing weight, adopting healthier eating habits, and becoming more active can reduce risk of Type 2 diabetes in half.
Register and attend the information class to learn more about the upcoming year-long program. Participants in the class regularly report weight loss, increased physical activity, and lowered glucose levels.
     What: Diabetes Prevention Program      When: Wednesday, Feb. 26 from noon-1 p.m.     Where: Boulder County Learning and Development Room                   3450 Broadway Street, Boulder
Program classes will begin on Wednesday, March 4 from noon-1 p.m. at the same location. Registration and a diagnosis of prediabetes are required. To find out about participation qualification, or for more information including directions, please contact Melissa Pruitt at 303-441-4583, or email infoHealthyAging@bouldercounty.org.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-planning-commission-agenda-for-feb-19-2020/





February 5, 2020




Boulder County Planning Commission agenda for Feb. 19, 2020

Planning Commission public meeting begins at 1:30 p.m.





Boulder County, Colo. - The next meeting of the Boulder County Planning Commission will be Wed., February 19, beginning at 1:30 p.m. 
Location:Boulder County Courthouse, Commissioners' Hearing Room, 3rd Floor1325 Pearl St., Boulder Map & Directions
View the February 19 meeting agenda. Agenda items include:
Approval of minutes/miscellaneous business.
Staff update(s) on projects and/or development review items (if necessary). Informational item only, public testimony will not be taken.
Items:


Adoption of Planning Commission Resolution PC-2020-01 (Docket BCCP-19-0003: BCCP Passive Recreation Definition Update to include E-Bikes)
Action Requested: AdoptionNo public testimony will be taken.


Adoption of Planning Commission Resolution PC-2020-02 (Dockets BCCP-18-0004 and BCCP-18-0005: Boulder County Comprehensive Plan - Housing and Economics Elements)On November 20, 2019 the Planning Commission adopted Resolution PC-2019-02 re: the Housing and Economic element of the Boulder County Comprehensive Plan. The subject resolution, PC-2020-02, corrects clerical errors in Resolution PC-2019-02 and supersedes and replaces it in its entirety.Action Requested: AdoptionNo public testimony will be taken.


Authorization for the Planning Commission to go into executive session on March 2, 2020 at 3 p.m. with the County Attorney’s Office, pursuant to CRS 24-6-402(4)(b), to discuss legal issues related to update of the County’s oil and gas regulations (Docket DC-19-0002).


Public Hearing: Docket V-19-0002: Ferncliff VacationRequest: Request to vacate the entirety of the Park Street platted right-of- way, the portion of right-of-way for County Road 149 contained within parcel #119725000008, and the portion of the Spangler Street platted right-of-way adjacent to parcel #119725004001.Location: Parcel #s 119725000002, 119725000007, 119725000008,119725004001, 119725006001, 119725006002, on the east and west sides of State Highway 7 Business Route, approximately 0.5 mile northwest from its southern intersection with State Highway 7, Section 25, Township 3N, Range 73W.Zoning: ForestryApplicant: Danielle LynnProperty Owners: Donald R. and Eileen L. Kvols, c/o Kenneth K. KvolsAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCStaff Planner: Jean (Raini) OttPublic testimony will be taken.


Public Hearing: Docket LE-19-0002 Town of Erie's Zone 3 Waterline Improvement Phase 2Request: Location and Extent review for a 24" transmission waterline and public trail.Location: At Parcel ID 146525000006 on the northeast corner of Arapahoe Road and North 119th Street, in Section 25, Township 1N, Range 69W.Zoning: Agricultural (A) Zoning DistrictApplicant: Wendi Palmer, Town of ErieProperty Owner: Boulder County Parks & Open SpaceAgent: JR Engineering LLCAction Requested: DecisionStaff Planner: Lucas BuscherPublic testimony will be taken.


Public Hearing: Docket SU-18-0020 Gold Lake Ventures LLCRequest: Special Use Review and Site Specific Development Plan to modify specifics related to approved special events, construct new structures, remodel historic structures, and deconstruct existing structures on an approximately 90-acre parcel, located at 3371 Gold Lake Road.Location: 3371 Gold Lake Road, on the north and south side of Gold Lake Road, approximately 2.60 miles from its intersection with CR 100, in Section 33, Township 2N, Range 72W.Zoning: Forestry (F)Applicant/Property Owner: Gold Lake Ventures LLCAgents: Bob Dalton, Colorado Landmark Realtors and Jim Scott, New Beginning BuildersAction Requested: Recommendation to BOCCStaff Planner: Summer FrederickPublic testimony will be taken.


Public Hearing: Docket BCCP-20-0001 Geologic Hazard Mapping-Related AmendmentsIn 2017 the county updated its geologic hazard mapping with post-flood grant funding. The updated mapping draws on best available data and methods to provide much more robust and granular geologic hazard data than was previously available. Staff presented Planning Commission (PC) with an update on the new mapping in March, 2018. With the support of PC and Board of County Commissioners staff requested quality control and peer review feedback from the Colorado Geologic Survey (CGS), with plans to ultimately seek BCCP adoption of revised mapping to replace the BCCP’s current Geologic Hazard and Constraint Areas Map. The county’s consultant executed minor map revisions based on CGS feedback. Staff requests approval of the new geologic hazard map, as well as minor revisions to the BCCP Geology element to appropriately reference the updated geologic hazard mapping.Action Requested: DecisionStaff Planner: Chad EndicottPublic testimony will be taken.


Public Hearing: Docket BCCP-20-0002 BCCP Document Template Conversion-Related AmendmentsThe Community Planning & Permitting Department has converted the BCCP document to a new design to update the look and feel of the document and provide design consistency. Along with the graphics refresh, amendments to the document Introduction and overall organization are proposed.Action Requested: DecisionStaff Planner: Molly MarcucilliPublic testimony will be taken.


Staff recommendations will be posted to the docket webpages on February 12.
The meeting will be livestreamed via the Boulder County Open Meeting Portal. Current and recent Planning Commission agendas, minutes, and archived video recordings are available on the Planning Commission webpage.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/red-hill-elk-herd-management-plan-open-house-wednesday-feb-5-in-longmont/




 


January 30, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Red Hill Elk Herd Management Plan Open House Wednesday, Feb. 5, in Longmont

Request for extension of Ron Stewart Preserve at Rabbit Mountain elk management plan will also be discussed.
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Parks & Open Space and Colorado Parks and Wildlife will host an open house Wednesday, Feb. 5, to discuss management options of the Red Hill elk herd (see area map below) and also to extending the Elk & Vegetation Management Plan at Ron Stewart Preserve at Rabbit Mountain. A short presentation will be given showing the progress made at Ron Stewart Preserve over the past three years and a second presentation will discuss the options being considered for the Red Hill herd. Staff will be available to answer questions. Public comments will be accepted at the meeting and online starting Feb. 5.
     Elk Management Open House     Wednesday, Feb. 5 from 6:30 – 8 p.m.     Ron Stewart Parks & Open Space Building     5201 St. Vrain Road, Longmont
The Red Hill elk herd makes use of county-owned properties closed to the public on either side of US 36 between Heil Valley Ranch and Table Mountain. The area has been historically utilized by the herd during fall and winter after migrating down from their summer range at higher elevations. However, a growing number of elk have recently ceased migration and now spend their summer at low elevation on county-owned properties and the Table Mountain area. 
The elk herd’s rapid population growth has the potential to cause extensive damage to the highly diverse native plants and wildlife habitat of this area. Additionally, this area has been noted as a dangerous highway elk crossing by the Colorado Department of Transportation with numerous vehicle-wildlife collisions.
For more information please visit  boco.org/elk or contact Resource Planning Manager Jeff Moline, jmoline@bouldercounty.org or 303-678-6270.







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-area-agency-on-aging-seeking-rfps-for-nutrition-services/




 


January 29, 2020




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging Seeking RFPs for Nutrition Services

Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Area Agency on Aging (BCAAA) is seeking proposals from qualified organizations interested in contracting with BCAAA to provide Congregate Meals, Home Delivered Meals, and Nutrition Counseling funded by the Older Americans Act and State Funding for Senior Services to older adults age 60 and older.
Up to $284,000 will be awarded to organizations that provide the following nutrition services:


Congregate Meals: A meal to an older adult in a congregate or group setting.

Home Delivered Meals: A meal to an eligible homebound older adult.

Nutrition Counseling: Advice and guidance provided by a registered dietitian.

The official Request for Proposal is released and available for completion beginning on Feb. 3. To access the official RFP, please visit www.bidnetdirect.com/colorado and https://bouldercountyaaa.oaa-sys.com/rfp/public/.
On Feb. 12 there will be a Mandatory Pre-bid Conference held for those planning to complete an RFP. The Mandatory Pre-bid Conference will be held at the Baltic Conference Room, 3482 N. Broadway, Boulder, from 9-11 a.m.
The RFP bidding process closes at 11:59 p.m. on Feb. 28.
The mission of the Boulder County Area Agency on Aging is to deliver, fund, and advocate for services that promote well-being, independence, and dignity for older adults, people with disabilities, family and informal caregivers, and veterans in Boulder County.
Questions about this the bidding process will need to be directed to purchasing@bouldercounty.org. More information about the BCAAA can be directed to Carlene Okiyama at cokiyama@bouldercounty.org or 303-441-1598.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-to-test-ballots-and-equipment-for-upcoming-presidential-primary-election/




 


January 27, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County to test ballots and equipment for upcoming Presidential Primary Election

Logic and Accuracy Test to take place beginning February 4





Boulder County, Colo. – Beginning on February 4, the Boulder County Elections Division will conduct a logic and accuracy test on ballots and equipment to be used for the 2020 Presidential Primary Election. While additional days are scheduled, the Elections Division anticipates the testing and sign-off to be completed on the same day.
The test ensures that equipment properly tabulates votes. Each type of ballot and all ballot styles will be tested to verify they are properly printed and read by the scanning equipment. The test will also confirm that scanning equipment settings are properly calibrated for the ballots. Testing is open to the public.

What:   Logic and Accuracy Testing – Testing of ballots and equipment for upcoming election.
When:  Tuesday, February 4, 9:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. If needed, testing will continue on Wednesday. Depending on how late into the day testing takes, the test board may review results, sign-off on test, reset and reseal equipment either on Tuesday after testing, or Friday at 1 p.m.
Where: Ballot Processing Center, Boulder County Clerk & Recorder’s Office, 1750 33rd Street in Boulder.

Visitors will need to check in at the front desk of the Elections Office, Suite 200, to be escorted to the test area.
After testing concludes, documentation and results will be available online. 
Boulder County voters can also visit www.BoulderCountyVotes.org to register to vote, check and update their voter registration, view ballot content, and learn more about local elections. They can also call 303-413-7740 for more information or visit one of three Boulder County Clerk & Recorder's office branches: 1750 33rd St. in Boulder; 529 Coffman St. in Longmont; or 1376 Miners Drive in Lafayette. Office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/training-course-helps-family-caregivers-thrive-begins-feb-17/




 


January 23, 2020




Training Course Helps Family Caregivers Thrive – Begins Feb. 17

Boulder County, Colo. - Powerful Tools for Caregivers, a 12-hour course sponsored by Boulder County Area Agency on Aging (a division of Community Services), will begin in early February in Niwot. The course is for family caregivers of older adults and provides them with “tools” to help ensure that they thrive, not just survive, during their caregiving.
 What: Powerful Tools for Caregivers When: Mondays, Feb. 17 - March 23, 1-3 p.m. Where: Eagle Place Community Building (N. 79th Street, Niwot)
Powerful Tools for Caregivers has been proven to help family caregivers enhance their self-care, reduce their stress levels, and feel better in general about their caregiving. The training covers topics such as communicating effectively, asking for help, making action plans for self-care, using helpful resources, and more.
Powerful Tools for Caregivers is open to Boulder County residents providing care for a relative, partner, or friend who is age 60 or over, or of any age if the person has dementia. There is no charge for the course, but donations are appreciated. Pre-registration is required, at 303-678-6116 or InfoCaregiver@bouldercounty.org. Financial assistance for respite care (substitute elder care during class sessions) may be available to participants.
For more information, contact Juliette Kershner, Boulder County Area Agency on Aging, at 303-678-6116 or InfoCaregiver@bouldercounty.org.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-releases-2019-hazard-mitigation-update-report/





January 22, 2020




Boulder County releases 2019 Hazard Mitigation Update Report

The report updates the existing Boulder Hazard Mitigation Plan and satisfies FEMA grant funding requirements
Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder Office of Emergency Management has received approval from the Board of County Commissioners to release and publicize the 2019 Hazard Mitigation Update Report.
The 2019 Hazard Mitigation Update Report updates the existing 5-year Boulder Hazard Mitigation Plan and satisfies FEMA's requirement for the county to conduct a yearly assessment of changes needed to keep the plan current and qualify for applicable FEMA funding. The report also highlights progress made in the past year towards achieving goals outlined in the plan.
The report was presented by Mike Chard, Director of the Boulder Office of Emergency Management, to the Boulder County Commissioners at a public business meeting on Dec. 19, 2019. The report is available for public review on the Boulder OEM website.
The county’s hazard mitigation plan is a 5-year plan that follows a model adopted by FEMA. It serves the purpose of verifying that whole community planning has gone into the creation of a hazard mitigation plan that addresses hazards identified in the plan. Mitigation is defined as any action to reduce or eliminate long term risk to life and property from hazard events.
The current hazard mitigation plan expires in 2021. The Boulder Office of Emergency Management is currently in the process of updating the 5-year plan. The Boulder Office of Emergency Management began the revision process in July with a kick-off meeting for members of the Multi-Hazard Mitigation Planning Committee made up of representatives from local governments and key agencies. The committee will reassess the hazards identified in the original 2016 document, evaluate the vulnerabilities to those hazards, and develop mitigation strategies to address them.
“Having a 5-year Hazard Mitigation Plan in place that meets FEMA standards insures that Boulder County is now qualified to access pre- and post-disaster mitigation grants,” said Chard. “We are currently in the process of revising the plan to ensure the plan accurately identifies hazards and mitigation strategies.”
Visit www.BoulderOEM.com or call 303-441-3390 for more information about the Boulder Office of Emergency Management or the Boulder Hazard Mitigation plan.
 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/irrigation-ditch-burns-scheduled-for-this-winter-and-spring-2/




 


January 17, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Irrigation ditch burns scheduled for this winter and spring

Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Fire Management Program will conduct irrigation ditch and agricultural burns on county open space lands this winter and spring as conditions allow.
Irrigation ditches are burned to remove unwanted vegetation for improving water conveyance, nutrient cycling, and planting success. Burn dates are contingent on ideal weather conditions, including relative humidity, fuel moisture, and wind.
Boulder County Parks & Open Space irrigation ditches and agricultural properties scheduled for controlled burns this year include:

Wittemyer (N. 119th St. and Mineral Rd.)
Wambsganss (N. 119th St. and Niwot Rd.)
Josephine Roche (N. 119th St. and Arapahoe Rd.)
Jim Henry (N. 115th St. and Niwot Rd.)
Gaynor Lake (N. 107th St. and Oxford Rd.)
Pella Crossing (N. 75th St. and Hygiene Rd.)

Smoke and flames may be visible for up to 72 hours. There may be heavy smoke in the air. Please do not call 911 since a controlled burn is not an emergency. The areas will be monitored to ensure fires are completely out.
Smoke from prescribed fires may affect health. The Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment Wood Smoke and Health website and the Boulder County Public Health Wildfire Air Quality & Health website provide tips on how to protect health from smoke. For additional information, contact Boulder County Parks & Open Space Senior Forester Stefan Reinold at 303-678-6202 or sreinold@bouldercounty.org. Updates will be posted to boco.org/burns.
 







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-elections-begins-presidential-primary-education-campaign/




 


January 17, 2020

Media Contact:
Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist, 303.413.7766



Boulder County Elections begins Presidential Primary Education campaign






Boulder County, Colo. – The Boulder County Clerk & Recorder’s Election Division has begun a voter education campaign that aims to inform voters about the upcoming new Presidential Primary, including pertinent deadlines, the ability of 17-year-olds (who will turn 18-years-old by Nov 3) to vote, and options for how unaffiliated voters can pre-select or cast a ballot.
Colorado will hold its first Presidential Primary Election in two decades on March 3, 2020 – Super Tuesday! Ballots for the stand-alone Presidential Primary are mailed to voters beginning Feb. 10. In order to participate, voters should know:

Presidential primaries in Colorado are only held by the Democratic and Republican Parties. A voter must be registered as Democrat, Republican, or Unaffiliated to participate.
Registered Democrats will receive only the Democratic Party ballot. Registered Republicans will receive only the Republican Party ballot.
Unaffiliated voters will be mailed both party ballots but can only vote and return one. Up until Feb. 3, unaffiliated voters can also pre-select their ballot preference, if they wish, by updating their voter registration with a ballot preference. This will eliminate getting both party ballots in the mail.
Feb. 3 is the deadline to switch party affiliation to vote in a different primary.
***NEW*** 17-year-olds who will turn 18 years old by the General Election, Tuesday, Nov. 3, 2020 – Can now VOTE in Primaries!
There is no registration deadline. You can register and vote up to and including Election Day.

As part of the education effort, Boulder County Elections Division produced a 60-second public service announcement (PSA) about the process. The PSA can be found on our Boulder County Clerk YouTube channel: www.YouTube.com/BoulderCountyClerk. This PSA will also be posted on the Elections Division website, Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter accounts. Additional fun follow-up videos will also be posted, so subscribe to the YouTube channel or follow us on one of our social media accounts.

Boulder County's PSA on the Colorado Presidential Primary Election
Additionally, the Elections Division is working closely with county partners and cities to make sure this information is shared in a variety of channels. The office will also be presenting about the upcoming Presidential Primary at various public forums and community events. We will publicize these events on our website and social media channels as they are scheduled. 
Voters who need to register to vote or check the status of their party registration, mailing address, or other information, should visit www.GoVoteColorado.gov. For more information about the Presidential Primary Election, visit www.BoulderCountyVotes.org or call 303-413-7740.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/homeless-solutions-for-boulder-county-hsbc-implements-system-changes/





January 16, 2020




Homeless Solutions for Boulder County (HSBC) implements system changes






HSBC is implementing service changes that further prioritize longer-term housing over temporary shelter; ensuring that Boulder County’s most vulnerable individuals experiencing homelessness become stably housed.





(Boulder County, Colo.) -- Homeless Solutions of Boulder County (HSBC), a public-private partnership between local government and human service nonprofits, is implementing service changes that further prioritize longer-term housing over temporary shelter; ensuring that Boulder County’s most vulnerable individuals experiencing homelessness become stably housed. These changes were determined by an analysis of system performance and are being introduced in phases to ensure that enough time, resources, and training occur for a successful implementation.
Since October of 2017, more than 884 single adults in Boulder County experiencing homelessness have moved into housing utilizing HSBC services, helping them avoid local emergency rooms, courts and jails. This “Housing First” approach has proven to be highly effective in helping people who are unhoused or living in places not meant for human habitation move into more permanent housing situations.
Features of the system include:

A countywide coordinated screening process that assesses the needs of people experiencing homelessness and matches them with appropriate services and housing;
Housing-focused shelter that provides year-round shelter and resources for individuals in greatest need of support to become more stable and get into housing;
Shorter-term navigation services that assist people with case management and sheltering with a focus on rapid returns to stable housing;
Diversion Services, a component of the Coordinated Entry process, which aims to divert adults from longer-term shelter services and focuses on an immediate return to stable housing. When people cannot be diverted from sheltering services, Coordinated Entry matches eligible clients to the appropriate sheltering and housing programs; and
A common database that tracks resources provided and assesses client progress.

Background and service changes
The first service change, implemented on Sept. 18, 2019, no longer requires a lengthy history of homelessness to be eligible for Housing-focused Shelter, and prioritizes limited resources for the most vulnerable adults experiencing homelessness who have ties to the Boulder County community.
The second service change beginning now, in January 2020, will offer more robust diversion services to all clients who seek services through Coordinated Entry in Boulder and Longmont. Diversion services, a national best practice to improve outcomes for people experiencing housing crises, provides resolutions through collaborative, individual problem-solving with an emphasis on reconnecting individuals to existing support systems. In addition to the implementation of Diversion Services, Navigation programs are being realigned to serve people who have resided in Boulder County for six months or more and who do not have disabling conditions.

“Optimizations to the current system will provide a more targeted and strategic response to homelessness,” said Heidi Grove, the Homeless Solutions for Boulder County System Manager. “We found that under the old criteria, we were unable to serve very vulnerable populations who had little or no history of homelessness but who had been in our community for an extended period. These changes will allow us to offer more responsive services to adults in Boulder County who become homeless.” 

Location changes for coordinated entry services
Coordinated Entry in the City of Longmont will be relocating to the St. Vrain Community Hub on Coffman Street to support the system changes. The date of this location change will be announced once HSBC determines that the proper training and resources are in place for a successful program launch. In the meantime, Coordinated Entry will take place at the OUR Center, located at 220 Collyer Street, through at least the end of January.
On June 1, Navigation Services in the City of Boulder, including overnight sheltering, will be moving from its temporary location at 2691 30th Street to the Boulder Shelter for the Homeless (BSH). New sites for Coordinated Entry and the Severe Weather Shelter in the City of Boulder will be announced at a later date.
Please see www.bouldercounty.org/homeless for more information on HSBC.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-commissioners-deliver-2020-state-of-the-county-address/




 


January 14, 2020




Boulder County Commissioners deliver 2020 State of the County address






Commissioner Deb Gardner named Chair; Commissioner Matt Jones named Vice-Chair of the Board of County Commissioners





(Boulder County, Colo. -- January 14, 2020) -- As part of the county’s annual “Reorganization” meeting today, the Boulder County Commissioners presented the State of the County address in video format and presided over the annual task of assigning board positions and appointing various heads of departments and county officials who serve at the pleasure of the board.
Commissioner Elise Jones, who has served as the Chair of the Board for the past year, opened the reorganization meeting by praising the hard-earned accomplishments and successes of the county in the prior year and thanked county employees for their continued commitment to the county's vision of "providing the best in public service."
The three commissioners then took turns talking about their priorities for the year ahead and announcing an internal restructuring of specific county functions to help create greater efficiencies in the delivery of county services and to give members of the public more “one-stop” service delivery by grouping similar functions together and streamlining related processes.
Statement by the Board of County Commissioners

Effective today, we are transitioning to a County Administrator model of government and appointing current Administrative Services Director, Jana Petersen, to this new role. This new structure is in line with the county's goals toward consolidating services and is in direct response to constituent requests for more and better coordinated planning and permitting services. 
The decision to change our organizational structure was made to:

Give the public more “one-stop shopping” opportunities and allow residents to more easily conduct business with the county by grouping “like” services together;
Help modernize the organization by managing the operational needs of county departments more efficiently; and
Enable us, the county commissioners, to focus our attention on our strategic priorities and spend more time interacting with the community. 

We believe this transition will help us to retain critical institutional knowledge throughout the organization and to better ensure the continuity of day-to-day administrative functions of county departments.
Overall, we believe this restructuring will lead to greater efficiencies in how we deliver services, create a more collaborative, team-based approach to public service, and reflect a more responsive public focus.
-Boulder County Board of CommissionersDeb Gardner, Matt Jones, Elise Jones






Highlights of the internal restructuring include:

Grouping together similar planning and permitting services that currently exist in two separate departments - Land Use and Transportation - and moving them to a newly named Community Planning & Permitting Department.
Combining the Transportation Department's engineering, fleet, and road maintenance functions with other operational and structural services of the county, such as the Boulder County Recycling Center and Building Services, into a new Public Works Department.
Creating a new Office of Sustainability, Climate Action, & Resilience to keep the climate crisis at the forefront of the county's work.
Retaining the Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Manager in the Commissioners’ Office in recognition of the need for diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts to be managed at the executive level of the organization. 


The recently revised 2020 Organizational Chart shows the relationship of the Boulder County Commissioners (BOCC), the newly appointed County Administrator, and the departments under the BOCC. (Click on image to open chart in a new tab.)





State of the County Video Snippets
To view Boulder County’s 2020 State of the County (SOTC) video, you can watch it in full, or in individual department sections:

Full State of the County Address from all offices and departments
Administrative Services
Assessor’s Office
Clerk & Recorder’s Office
Commissioner’s Office
Community Services
Coroner’s Office
County Attorney’s Office
District Attorney’s Office
Land Use
Office of financial Management
Parks & Open Space
Public Health
Sheriff’s Office
Transportation
Treasurer’s Office

 
An archive video of the County Reorganization meeting will be available on the county’s website by the end of today at: http://bouldercountyco.iqm2.com/Citizens/default.aspx. (The commissioners’ comments follow the 48-minute SOTC video or can be viewed directly here, along with comments from the newly appointed County Administrator, Jana Petersen.)
During the meeting, Commissioner Deb Gardner was named Chair of the three-person Board of County Commissioners while Commissioner Matt Jones assumed the role of Vice-Chair.
More about the Board of County Commissioners can be found on the county website at: www.BoulderCounty.org/bocc.


















Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/oil-gas-update-at-jan-28-board-of-county-commissioners-public-meeting/





January 13, 2020




Oil & Gas Update at Jan. 28 Board of County Commissioners’ Public Meeting

Commissioners will hold a public meeting to receive an update from county staff
Boulder County, Colo. - On Tuesday, Jan. 28 the Board of County Commissioners will hold a public meeting to receive an update from county staff on the progress of Boulder County’s oil and gas regulations (Article 12 of the Land Use Code). This will be a public meeting; no public comment will be taken, but interested members of the public are encouraged to attend.
What: Update on Progress of Boulder County’s Oil and Gas RegulationsWhen: 3 p.m. Tuesday, Jan. 28, 2020Where: Boulder County Commissioners Hearing Room, Third Floor, Boulder County Courthouse, 1325 Pearl St., Boulder
A temporary moratorium on the acceptance and processing of new oil and gas development applications and seismic testing in unincorporated Boulder County is in effect until March 28, 2020.
Background
On June 4, 2019, the Board of County Commissioners (BOCC) approved authorization for text amendments to the Boulder County Land Use Code in Docket DC-19-0002: Proposed Boulder County Land Use Code Text Amendments related to Article 12 – Special Review for Oil and Gas Operations.
Staff requested the BOCC authorize text amendments to Article 12 of the Land Use Code in light of SB19-181 (Protect Public Welfare Oil and Gas Operations), which was signed into law on April 16, 2019.
Comments on the county's oil and gas development regulations update may be sent via email to oilgascomment@bouldercounty.org.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/n-61st-and-n-63rd-streets-near-hygiene-closed/




 


January 13, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



N. 61st and N. 63rd streets near Hygiene closed

Closure will begin Monday, Jan. 20, for approximately two months
Boulder County, Colo. - N. 61st and N. 63rd streets near Hygiene will be closed beginning Monday, Jan. 20, for construction related to the Lake 4, West Lake, and A-Frame Dam Rehabilitation Project — a flood recovery project sponsored by the Boulder County Parks & Open Space Department and implemented by Kirkland Construction.
N. 61st and N. 63rd streets will be closed between Ute Highway (SH-66) and Hygiene Rd. to all through traffic starting Monday, Jan. 20, for approximately two months. Specifically, the closure will be just south of the bridge over St. Vrain Creek on 61st Street. All residents on 61st and 63rd streets will have access to their driveways and properties.
Truck traffic haul hours are limited to 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Expect haul traffic to increase on local roads this week with material deliveries. The overall project is planned to continue until Fall 2020. Working hours are 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, with work also occurring on some Saturdays. 
For more information and updates, please visit the project’s website, boco.org/LakeFloodRepair. If you have questions, comments, or concerns, please contact Obadiah Broughton, Boulder County Parks & Open Space Project Coordinator/Planner, at 720-964-6530 or obroughton@bouldercounty.org. 







Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-now-accepting-nominations-for-the-2020-land-conservation-awards/




 


January 8, 2020

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



Boulder County now accepting nominations for the 2020 Land Conservation Awards

Nominations accepted through Friday, Jan. 31
Boulder County, Colo. - The Boulder County Parks & Open Space Department is accepting nominations for the annual Land Conservation Awards through Friday, Jan. 31.
Anyone may nominate individuals, families, or organizations that have made outstanding contributions in Boulder County in Land Conservation, Environmental Stewardship, or Historic Preservation.
Special consideration will be given to land conservation or historic preservation activities that particularly affect unincorporated Boulder County and for activities that demonstrate ongoing effort. One-time efforts resulting in lasting benefits to the county’s environmental landscape will also be favored for selection. Other award selection criteria include conservation activities that are a model for others or that increase public awareness of land conservation.
People may not nominate themselves nor are they permitted to nominate organizations of which they are an officer or director. Official projects of federal, state, county, special district, and municipal government agencies are not eligible to be nominated.
For more information and to submit a nomination, please go to boco.org/lca or contact Renata Frye at rfrye@bouldercounty.org.
The Boulder County Commissioners will present the awards during national volunteer week on Tuesday, April 21, 3-4 p.m. at the county Parks & Open Space headquarters in Longmont.






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/county-commissioners-sign-letter-of-support-to-continue-resettlement-of-refugees-in-boulder-county/




 


January 7, 2020




County Commissioners sign letter of support to continue resettlement of refugees in Boulder County






Boulder County has a long history of receiving refugees who are in this country as part of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP), which leads to resettlement of refugees in the homes of participating families and provides them with various levels of support.
Until now, this program has not required the consent of local governments to continue. On September 26, 2019, President Trump issued Executive Order on Enhancing State and Local Involvement in Refugee Resettlement (EO 13888), which requires that states and local governments provide written consent authorizing the continued resettlement of refugees into their respective communities.
Pursuant to this federal law, a resettlement agency that operates in Colorado contacted the county, provided information about the executive order, and requested written consent for resettlement of refugees here. Boulder County, like many other counties, towns, and cities around the U.S.has notified Secretary of State Michael Pompeo of the county's intent to continue with refugee resettlement in our community. 
Copy of letter: secretary-of-state-michael-pompeo-refugee-resettlement-letter.pdf





January 7, 2020
Secretary Michael R. PompeoU.S. Department of State2201 C Street NWWashington, D.C. 20520
Dear Secretary Pompeo:
This letter is in reference to Executive Order 13888, "On Enhancing State and LocalInvolvement in Resettlement." We write to affirm that Boulder County consents to continuedrefugee resettlement in our community; we will continue to take part in the U.S. RefugeeAdmissions Program (USRAP).
Refugees are people that have been forced to flee their home countries to escape violence,persecution, or war. For them, resettlement in another country is the last resort when theyfind they cannot return to their home country to rebuild their lives there. The United Stateshas a long history of welcoming refugees, with extremely careful selection for lawfuladmission of the most vulnerable refugees. In addition to United Nations vetting, the UnitedStates completes extensive refugee screening through multiple in-person interviews, securitydatabase clearances, and background checks. After acceptance, state and local governments, local non-profit organizations, and volunteers provide refugees with housing, language, job training, and other resources to help them integrate into their new communities and become economically self-sufficient.
Refugees are resilient, skilled, hard workers that contribute greatly to our communities, asdocumented in multiple studies that show refugees are economic contributors and jobcreators. In addition to bringing skills and economic contributions, refugees contribute to therich fabric of diversity in our communities.
It is a bedrock principal of the United States to serve as a refuge for those fleeing tyranny,violence, and political persecution. We should continue to stand as a beacon of hope andfreedom for persons around the world. In that spirit, as representatives of Boulder Countyand as Coloradans, we are proud to do our part by continuing to accept the resettlement ofrefugees.
For these reasons and more, as the Board of County Commissioners, we continue towelcome refugees and consent to refugee resettlement in Boulder County, Colorado, as perthe terms of the Executive Order.
Sincerely,
Elise Jones, ChairCounty Commissioner
Deb Gardner, Vice-ChairCounty Commissioner
Matt JonesCounty Commissioner












Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/boulder-county-purchases-building-in-lafayette-for-consolidated-county-services/




 


January 7, 2020




Boulder County purchases building in Lafayette for consolidated county services

Purchase will support consolidated services in southeast Boulder County





Boulder County, Colo. (Jan. 7, 2020) - The County Commissioners today approved a purchase agreement for a newly constructed 40,000 square foot building at 1755 S Public Road in Lafayette for $12.8 million.
The purchase is intended to create a new location for county-managed human services along with state-mandated programs (such as Motor Vehicle and Elections) serving the southeast region of Boulder County. This new co-location of services will be similar to -- but smaller than – the county’s model facility, the St. Vrain Community Hub in Longmont. At the same time, the county is also engaged in a comprehensive search for an optimal site for a consolidated county services hub within Boulder city limits.
“We are excited to provide more services directly to southeast Boulder County residents with a new building in Lafayette,” said Boulder County Commissioner Matt Jones. “This location helps provide services for our southeast residents closer to where they live -- like we do for residents in Longmont and Boulder. Plus, we jumped at this purchase opportunity when we examined the added benefit of being near our partner human services providers like Clinica, Mental Health Partners, and Imagine!”
“The Facilities Master Plan establishes goals for access of services and consolidation of services. This purchase gives us the opportunity to service the growing needs of southeast county as well as consolidating satellite offices in Lafayette,” said Boulder County Administrative Services Director Jana Petersen. “The time was right to move forward now because of the availability of a newly constructed building close to the growing southeast county population and adjacencies to nonprofit organizations that Boulder County human services staff work with closely.”
Following the approval of the purchase agreement in Lafayette, the county will conduct due diligence prior to closing on the sale, which is expected to happen in 120 days. The building interior is unfinished, so additional construction would need to occur prior to the county facility opening, which is likely to be sometime in 2021.
Currently, the county leases space at 1376 Miner’s Drive in Lafayette, which houses Clerk & Recorder functions as well as office hours for the Assessor’s and Treasurer’s offices. The new building would replace this facility and would enable the county to offer additional human services in southeast Boulder County as well. The Boulder County Facilities master plan, adopted by the Commissioners in May 2018, called for the creation of a southeast hub for county services in the future because of population growth in that part of the county. This purchase provides us an opportunity to accomplish that goal sooner.
 






Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/open-houses-scheduled-in-january-for-public-review-of-preliminary-flood-insurance-rate-maps/




 


January 7, 2020

Media Contact
Andrew Barth, 303-441-1032



Open houses scheduled in January for public review of Preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps

Following the 2013 flood, the Colorado Hazard Mapping Program has been re-mapping the regulatory floodplain of the most affected waterways in Colorado
Boulder County, Colo. - Following the 2013 flood, the state-funded Colorado Hazard Mapping Program (CHAMP) has been re-mapping the regulatory floodplain of the most affected waterways in Colorado.
In 2017 and 2018, Boulder County adopted comprehensive zoning map amendments to the Floodplain Overlay Zoning District based on draft CHAMP mapping for unincorporated Boulder County. The draft data were also submitted to FEMA, which released Preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) for CHAMP-studied stream reaches in September 2019. Boulder County adopted the Preliminary FIRMs into the Floodplain Overlay Zoning District in December 2019 after public hearings with the Planning Commission and Board of County Commissioners.
Last November, property owners impacted by the revisions were sent postcards informing them of the Preliminary FIRMs so they could review the maps prior to their adoption by the Board of County Commissioners. Interested parties are encouraged to visit www.BoCoFloodplainRemapping.com to view the Preliminary FIRMs, as well as the current regulatory floodplain for unincorporated Boulder County.
Open House Meeting Dates & Details
In order to review the FEMA appeals process and flood insurance requirements related to the Preliminary FIRMs with property owners and residents, Boulder County will host six open houses in January at various locations around the county. Representatives from FEMA, the CHAMP team, and Boulder County will be present at each session. Each open house will focus on specific reaches, but residents are invited to discuss any stream at each meeting:


Lower Boulder Creek, New Dry Creek, Coal Creek, and Rock Creek - Tuesday, Jan. 14 | 5 to 6:30 p.m. (presentation at 5:15 p.m.)Boulder County Recycling Center – 1901 63rd Street in Boulder County

Saint Vrain Creek, Lower Left Hand Creek, Dry Creek #2, and Little Thompson River - Thursday, Jan. 16 | 5 to 6:30 p.m. (presentation at 5:15 p.m.)Boulder County Parks and Open Space Ron Stewart Building – 5201 St. Vrain Drive in Longmont

North, Middle, and South Saint Vrain creeks and Cabin Creek - Tuesday, Jan. 21 | 5 to 6:30 p.m. (presentation at 5:15 p.m.)Highlands Presbyterian Church – 1306 Business Highway 7 in Allenspark

North and South Saint Vrain creeks and Saint Vrain Creek - Thursday, Jan. 23 | 5 to 6:30 p.m. (presentation at 5:15 p.m.)Lyons Regional Library – 451 Fourth Ave. in Lyons

This is a joint meeting between Boulder County and the Town of LyonsLittle James Creek, James Creek, Upper Left Hand Creek, and Geer Canyon - Tuesday, Jan. 28 | 5 to 6:30 p.m. (presentation at 5:15 p.m.)Jamestown Town Hall – 118 Main St. in JamestownThis is a joint meeting between Boulder County and the Town of Jamestown

Fourmile Canyon Creek, Two Mile Canyon Creek, Gold Run, Fourmile Creek, Boulder Creek and North, Middle, and South Boulder creeks - Thursday, Jan. 30 | 5 to 6:30 p.m. (presentation at 5:15 p.m.)Boulder Public Library Main Branch, Boulder Creek Room – 1001 Arapahoe Ave. in Boulder

FEMA uses Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) to set flood insurance premiums. The Preliminary FIRMs will become FEMA’s final effective FIRMs in 2021, pending any appeals received by FEMA. The county expects FEMA to begin their 90-day appeal period in the spring of 2020. During this period, anyone may work with the county to submit a formal appeal to FEMA based on scientific and technical data. Learn more about the appeal process and the National Flood Insurance Program on the county’s website.
Questions about the Floodplain Remapping Program and the upcoming open houses can be directed to Kelly Watson, Boulder County Transportation Floodplain Planner, by email or by calling 720-564-2652. You can also visit www.BoCoFloodplainRemapping.com to learn more and view any weather-related meeting cancellation notification.


















Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/recruitment-for-advisory-boards-and-commissions-closes-jan-10/




 


December 31, 2019




Recruitment for advisory boards and commissions closes Jan. 10

Boulder County invites residents to voice opinions, provide guidance





Boulder County, Colo. -- Boulder County is seeking volunteers who would like to voice their opinions and help guide decisions on matters ranging from resource conservation to community and work programs. The deadline for members of the public to view vacancies and apply online for positions is Jan. 10
The county is recruiting residents for 29 open positions on advisory boards and commissions. These openings include seats on the Board of Review, the Parks & Open Space Advisory Committee, and many more exciting topics. Advisory boards and commissions provide recommendations to the Boulder County Commissioners and give residents the opportunity to have their voices heard within Boulder County government. The county, in turn, benefits from this input.
To view descriptions and requirements for the various boards and commissions or to fill out an application, visit the Advisory Boards and Commissions page of the Boulder County website.
For more information about these opportunities, call the Boulder County Commissioners’ Office at 303-441-3501.












Contact the Board of County Commissioners


View Commissioners' Meeting Documents and Records


Visit the County Commissioners' webpage











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/news/prairie-dog-management-on-county-open-space-annual-public-meeting-tuesday-jan-7/




 


December 23, 2019

Media ContactVivienne Jannatpour, (303) 678-6277



 Prairie dog management on county open space – annual public meeting Tuesday, Jan. 7

Ron Stewart Parks & Open Space Building, Longmont
Boulder County, Colo. - Boulder County Parks & Open Space will host its annual public meeting concerning prairie dog management on Boulder County Parks & Open Space properties on Tuesday, Jan. 7, 2020, from 5:30 to 7 p.m.
Staff will be available to discuss the variety of activities conducted in 2019 and how the department manages prairie dogs on open space properties, including agricultural lands. Public comment is invited. No changes are proposed to the Prairie Dog Habitat Element of the Grassland and Shrubland Management Policy.
What: Annual public meeting on prairie dog management.When: Tuesday, Jan. 7, 2020, 5:30-7 p.m.Where: Ron Stewart Parks & Open Space Building, 5201 St. Vrain Road, Longmont
For more information, please visit boco.org/PrairieDogs or contact Jeff Moline, Resource Planning Division Manager, at 303-678-6270 or jmoline@bouldercounty.org.



--------------------------------------------


Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/families/disease/covid-19/covid-19-resources/



Resources for Those Affected by COVID-19


 en español




Boulder County is working with community partners to help those affected by COVID-19. This page includes resources for accessing emergency assistance, food and financial assistance, health care and mental health care supports, help with housing, safety supports, child care assistance, legal services, and more. Also see our printable flyers for general resources and for resources for parents of babies and young children (both in English and Spanish).
Due to the ongoing spread of COVID-19, Colorado Governor Jared Polis has issued a face covering order for all Colorado residents over age 11, with a few exceptions, effective until August 15, 2020.
The Safer at Home Order has transitioned to the State of Colorado’s Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors phase of COVID-19 response. Coloradans are no longer ordered to stay home but are strongly advised to do so. Critical businesses are open and non-critical businesses are operating with restrictions. Both the State of Colorado and Boulder County requires face coverings to be worn by anyone over the age of 11 when in public anywhere and physical distancing (at least six feet distance between yourself and others not in your household) is not possible. There are some exceptions. See the link for details. Much of Colorado is now open with restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and protect those at highest risk for severe illness.
The Boulder County Call Center (720-776-0822) is available from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and can answer questions about food and housing assistance, unemployment applications, services for older adults, and health questions about COVID-19.
Looking for health advice? See the Health Coverage section below. The state of Colorado also has a database of community resources at 2-1-1 Colorado or by calling 2-1-1.






 en español




Boulder County is working with community partners to help those affected by COVID-19. This page includes resources for accessing emergency assistance, food and financial assistance, health care and mental health care supports, help with housing, safety supports, child care assistance, legal services, and more. Also see our printable flyers for general resources and for resources for parents of babies and young children (both in English and Spanish).
Due to the ongoing spread of COVID-19, Colorado Governor Jared Polis has issued a face covering order for all Colorado residents over age 11, with a few exceptions, effective until August 15, 2020.
The Safer at Home Order has transitioned to the State of Colorado’s Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors phase of COVID-19 response. Coloradans are no longer ordered to stay home but are strongly advised to do so. Critical businesses are open and non-critical businesses are operating with restrictions. Both the State of Colorado and Boulder County requires face coverings to be worn by anyone over the age of 11 when in public anywhere and physical distancing (at least six feet distance between yourself and others not in your household) is not possible. There are some exceptions. See the link for details. Much of Colorado is now open with restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and protect those at highest risk for severe illness.
The Boulder County Call Center (720-776-0822) is available from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and can answer questions about food and housing assistance, unemployment applications, services for older adults, and health questions about COVID-19.
Looking for health advice? See the Health Coverage section below. The state of Colorado also has a database of community resources at 2-1-1 Colorado or by calling 2-1-1.




Employment & Unemployment


Evictions Moratorium
Governor Jared Polis has signed two new executive orders designed to help keep Colorado renters in their homes during COVID-19.
The first executive order extends through July 13 certain protections against evictions for nonpayment of rent by requiring landlords to provide tenants 30 days notice (as opposed to the standard 10 days) of any default for non-payment of rent before initiating the evictions process. Tenants can use this 30 day window to cure the default. Because this order expires on July 13, landlords would need to honor the 30-day notice requirement up through that day, or wait to file a 10-day notice for default of nonpayment on July 14. This order also provides that landlords are prohibited from charging late feels or penalties for breaches of a lease or rental agreement due to nonpayment of rent that occurred between May 1 and June 13.
In the second executive order, Governor Polis orders that the $3 million already allocated to the Department of Local Affairs from the Disaster Emergency Fund continue to be available for six more months to provide short-term rental and mortgage assistance to low- and moderate-income households (at or below 80% of area median income) facing hardship due to COVID-19. These funds will continue to be distributed through state and local governments and non-profits.
In the second order, Governor Polis also “strongly encourage[s]” local governments to consider suspending or eliminating restrictions on the number of people who can live in a single household, group or boarding houses, and the number of days hotel rooms can be occupied.
The Boulder County District Attorney’s Office has issued guidance around evictions.  See this guidance in English and Spanish. 
As has been the case, during this challenging time landlords and tenants are strongly encouraged to enter into rent payment or rent delay agreements that work for both of them. Comprehensive information on housing supports during COVID-19 is available at www.boco.org/COVID-19Resources and www.boco.org/COVID-19Recursos. The Boulder County Housing Helpline (303-441-1206) is also in place to help people cover their housing costs or find ways to work with their landlords.
Income reduced? Take these actions now:

If you can’t pay a bill on time, call the company. Many companies will work with you on a solution. See guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
If your income has been drastically reduced, apply for Colorado unemployment benefits. Learn more about the newly streamlined process to apply here. You can also contact Workforce Boulder County at 720-776-0822 for assistance applying for Unemployment (in English or Spanish).
Access community resources and apply for public benefits. See more below and in other sections of this page.
Avoid scams and offers of easy money. Never give your personal information or pay in response to an offer of help. See what the Federal Trade Commission has to say about this.

If you need assistance with expenses:
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA)
Food assistance/food bank, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health services, and much more for Boulder and the southern mountains. See flyers in English and Spanish. Phone: 303-442-3042.
Sister Carmen Community Center
Food assistance/food bank, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health and transportation services, and much more for Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie.
303-665-4342
OUR Center
Food pantry, hot breakfasts & lunches, housing and rental assistance, basic health services, and more for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
303-772-5529
Peak to Peak Alliance
Food assistance through pantries in Nederland, Ward, Lyons, and Allenspark, financial assistance for rent/mortgage, and other services and referrals with help from the Mountain Resource Liaisons.
Virtual Job Fair
Workforce Boulder County is hosting a virtual job fair with local employers who are currently hiring. The job fair has recently added new employers. To participate,  create a Connecting Colorado Account and select Boulder County as a region of interest in their profile. Learn more and log on to participate in the job fair HERE.
Workforce Boulder County
Workforce Boulder County (WfBC) provides career services for job seekers and businesses, including veterans services and a young adult program. Due to COVID-19, their offices are closed until further notice and workshops scheduled for April have been canceled. WfBC staff are still available remotely, please find updates on services in English and Spanish. WfBC staff can help monolingual Spanish speakers apply for Unemployment over the phone. Reach out to Workforce Boulder County in the following ways:

General questions
Call 720-776-0822
Email: workforce@bouldercounty.org
Job listing and other information: connectingcolorado.com
Virtual resume critique or interview prep: ceinfo@bouldercounty.org
Business customers: wfbiz@bouldercounty.org
Veterans: contact Daniel Savage, Regional Veterans Employment Representative, at 720-595-1232
Visit the Workforce Boulder County web site at www.wfbc.org

Employment First
If you have an appointment with Employment First, please call your Support Specialist at the number listed on your paperwork to reschedule.
State Employment Resources
OnwardCO.org
A response site that provides support for individuals in Colorado impacted by job loss by connecting folks to essential services, online training programs, and immediate employment opportunities.
Unemployment Insurance
For information about unemployment insurance and the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment visit https://myui.coworkforce.com/Welcome or call:

Denver Metro: 303-318-9000/ Toll-Free: 1-800-388-5515
Denver Metro (in Spanish): 303-318-9333/ Toll-Free: 1-866-422-0402
Deaf and Hard of Hearing (TTY) Denver Metro: 303-318-9016/ Toll Free: 1-800-894-7730\

Personal Finance Program
The Boulder County Personal Finance Program (PFP) is here to help you navigate financial uncertainty, including services such as:

Individualized financial capacity – priority payments and options during difficult times, gaining control of your money, ways to save, debt management, etc.
Mortgage questions and foreclosure intervention – reducing losses, understanding your options
Student loans and repayment programs – plans to fit your income, getting out of default, loan consolidation, loan forgiveness/deferment, credit impacts
The home buying process – home affordability and debt-to-income ratios, loan options, your credit score, purchase and down-payment assistance, etc.
Safe banking (see www.BankOnBoulderCounty.com) – connecting people with a bank account so they can receive their paychecks, unemployment benefits, and government stimulus money faster and safer, and finding banks that have accounts with very low monthly fees ($0 to $5)
Reverse mortgages – education and certificates

The PFP team offers both phone and virtual appointments to review your individual circumstance, talk about options and help you create a plan. All appointments are free and confidential, and Spanish-speaking coaches are available. Here’s how to reach us:

Request an appointment via the PFP web page (click on “Request an Appointment”)
call 720-564-2279 (option 1 for English and option 8 for Spanish) and leave a voicemail (call-backs within 48 hours), or
email PersonalFinance@BoulderCounty.org



Housing


Here are resources and information for Boulder County Housing Authority voucher holders and tenants.
Some rental assistance is available in the community for those impacted by COVID-19. More information is below. Anyone seeking help paying for rent can call 303-441-1206 and leave a detailed message. A Housing Specialist will then return your call in 1 to 2 business days (delays are due to high call volume at this time).
Boulder County is working with our federal, state and local partners to respond to the unprecedented impacts of COVID-19 in our community. Access to a safe and stable home is crucial for all of us at all times, and especially now. The information below outlines policies and programs we are putting in place to help support renters, landlords, and homeowners through this time.
Statewide Emergency Rental Assistance Programs
The Property Owner  Preservation (POP) Program  provides assistance for landlords to help tenants who have been unable to pay rent due to financial hardship related to COVID-19.
The Emergency Housing Assistance Program (EHAP) provides assistance to tenants and mobile home park owners to help pay rent.
Understanding the Current Eviction Rules
Governor Jared Polis has signed two new executive orders designed to help keep Colorado renters in their homes during COVID-19.
The first executive order extends through July 13 certain protections against evictions for nonpayment of rent by requiring landlords to provide tenants 30 days notice (as opposed to the standard 10 days) of any default for non-payment of rent before initiating the evictions process. Tenants can use this 30 day window to cure the default. Because this order expires on July 13, landlords would need to honor the 30-day notice requirement up through that day, or wait to file a 10-day notice for default of nonpayment on July 14. This order also provides that landlords are prohibited from charging late feels or penalties for breaches of a lease or rental agreement due to nonpayment of rent that occurred between May 1 and June 13.
In the second executive order, Governor Polis orders that the $3 million already allocated to the Department of Local Affairs from the Disaster Emergency Fund continue to be available for six more months to provide short-term rental and mortgage assistance to low- and moderate-income households (at or below 80% of area median income) facing hardship due to COVID-19. These funds will continue to be distributed through state and local governments and non-profits.
In the second order, Governor Polis also “strongly encourage[s]” local governments to consider suspending or eliminating restrictions on the number of people who can live in a single household, group or boarding houses, and the number of days hotel rooms can be occupied.
As has been the case, during this challenging time landlords and tenants are strongly encouraged to enter into rent payment or rent delay agreements that work for both of them. The Boulder County Housing Helpline (303-441-1206) is also in place to help people cover their housing costs or find ways to work with their landlords.
The Boulder County District Attorney’s Office has issued guidance around evictions, including what renters should do if a landlord is repeatedly threatening eviction (for reasons not related to protecting public health and safety). See this guidance in English and Spanish. **Importantly, this guidance states the following: If a landlord or other housing provider repeatedly threatens eviction or attempts to evict while the state order is in place, the tenant should contact local law enforcement and the District Attorney’s Office.
Additional detailed information and a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) for tenants and landlords is available in the COVID-19 Rental, Evictions and Foreclosures FAQ, available in English and Spanish. Key points include:

These unique circumstances require flexibility, compromise and communication between all parties.
It is best for everyone to negotiate an agreement, taking into account the financial realities and ability of both the landlord and tenant to absorb any losses.
Communicate early and often to discuss an arrangement that could be workable to everyone.
Some options may include a payment plan, temporary rent reduction (if possible), early termination of the lease, substitute services for rent, or other solutions.
Housing providers will not be able to evict tenants – for any reason, including non-payment of rent – until after May 31. Housing providers cannot remove tenants or their belongings, or change the locks on their rental property, or shut off utilities, without first going through the eviction process.

For Tenants
It is important to know that our community’s potential need for rental assistance far exceeds the available resources.  Because we are unable to help all those struggling with covering their housing costs right now, our focus at this time is to help our lowest-income community members. As new information on state, federal, and other assistance become available, we will update this page. Please check back regularly.
Step 1 – Work with Your Landlord 
In these unprecedented times, it is important for landlords and tenants to work together to reach a compromise. Contact your landlord as soon as possible to discuss the financial realities and develop a plan that can work for both of you. Some options may include a payment plan, temporary rent reduction (if possible), substituting services for rent, or other creative solutions.  Please be sure to document any agreement in writing.
Step 2 – Use Mediation or Legal Support (if needed)

Mediation services for Boulder, Gunbarrel, Nederland and surrounding area, Louisville, and Superior: City of Boulder Mediation Program has expanded to serve all listed areas, and now has an online form for requesting services.

Phone: 303-441-4364
Email: mediation@bouldercolorado.gov


Mediation services for Longmont, Lafayette, Niwot and surrounding area, Lyons, and Allenspark: The City of Longmont Mediation Program has expanded to serve all listed areas.

Phone: 303-651-8444


Boulder County Legal Services(click “Apply Online” at the top of the webpage) – provides free civil legal services to low-income individuals in Boulder County



Phone: 303-449-7575




Boulder County Bar Association has created a free Virtual Legal Clinic for the many people affected by the current pandemic who may need attorney advice. To request legal help, click on the link and then register for the clinics under “For the Community”.

Step 3 – Apply for Rental Assistance
If you are not able to create a payment plan with your landlord and/or you are unable to reach agreement through mediation services or legal support, your household may qualify for a one-time payment to cover up to two partial or full months of rent.

First, Apply for Emergency TANF:  To qualify, the family’s total annual gross household income cannot exceed $75,000; all adult members of the household must be lawfully present in the United States, and there must be at least one related child under the age of 18 living in the home.

If your family is within these guidelines, apply online through Colorado PEAK and select “Colorado Works/TANF”.
If your household income is above $75,000 please refer to Steps 1 and 2 above to negotiate with your landlord. Rental assistance is not currently available for households over this income limit.


Second, call the Housing Help Line:  If you do not have children in your home or you otherwise do not qualify for Colorado Works/TANF, call 303-441-1206 and leave a detailed message. A Housing Specialist will then return your call in 1 to 2 business days (delays are due to high call volume at this time).
Or reach out to your local Family Resource Center:  Each of the three agencies listed below is assisting their community members with rental and other financial assistance, along with immediate access to food and many other resources.

Emergency Family Assistance Association(EFAA): Financial assistance available for utilities, rent or mortgage assistance for Boulder and southern mountain residents. See flyers in English and Spanish.
OUR Center: Financial assistance, including rental and utility support available for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
Sister Carmen Community Center: Financial assistance available for utilities, rent or mortgage support for residents of Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie.



In addition, we strongly encourage you to apply for food (SNAP) and child care assistance (CCAP), help with health coverage (Medicaid), and Unemployment benefits. See the other sections of this page for information or contact Boulder County Housing and Human Services via phone/text at 303-441-1069 or via email at hhscallcenter@bouldercounty.org.
Step 4 – Access Additional Services

Boulder County’s Personal Finance Program provides free and confidential individual financial coaching, in English and Spanish, to households at all income levels.

Click here to schedule an appointment
Phone: 720-564-2279
Email: personalfinance@bouldercounty.org


Financial assistance

See the Financial Assistance section if you have exhausted all options and are concerned you will be unable to cover your rent due to the impacts of COVID-19. You may be eligible for Unemployment Insurance or additional financial assistance.



For Landlords
Step 1 – Work with Your Tenant(s) and Lender(s)
Agencies, businesses, landlords, families and individuals need to work together. Collaboration and compromise are core to keeping our community stable. We encourage you to work with your tenants to develop a plan that works for all. Some options may include a payment plan, temporary rent reduction (if possible), substituting services for rent, or other creative solutions.
Additional detailed information and a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) for tenants and landlords is available in the COVID-19 Rental, Evictions and Foreclosures FAQ, available in English and Spanish.

Property owners facing payment issues should contact their lender immediately. Communicating with the lender early gives everyone time to develop an alternative plan. If the owner would like assistance in this process or further information, he or she should contact the Boulder County Personal Finance Program (personalfinance@bouldercounty.org and www.BoulderCountyPFP.org).
On March 18, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) enacted an “immediate foreclosure and eviction moratorium for single family homeowners with FHA-insured mortgages” for the next 60 days.
Servicers of Fannie Mae- and Freddie Mac-backed loans are instructed to work with borrowers experiencing hardship related to COVID-19. This includes suspension of payment, creating forbearance plans, and loan modification. It is expected many other lenders will follow this same guidance.
The Boulder County Personal Finance program provides free counseling by trained homeownership counselors. Included is counseling related to foreclosure, loan modification, and lender communications (www.BoulderCountyPFP.org).
Small businesses and sole proprietors may be eligible to apply for an Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL).  Learn more on the Boulder County Covid-19 Resources for Businesses page.

Step 2 – Use Mediation or Legal Support (if needed)

Mediation services for Boulder, Gunbarrel, Nederland and surrounding area, Louisville, and Superior: City of Boulder Mediation Program has expanded to serve all listed areas, and now has an online form for requesting services.

Phone: 303-441-4364
Email: mediation@bouldercolorado.gov


Mediation services for Longmont, Lafayette, Niwot and surrounding area, Lyons, and Allenspark: The City of Longmont Mediation Program has expanded to serve all listed areas.

Phone: 303-651-8444


Boulder County Legal Services (click “Apply Online” at the top of the web page) – provides free civil legal services to low-income individuals in Boulder County



Phone: 303-449-7575




Boulder County Bar Association has created a free Virtual Legal Clinic for the many people affected by the current pandemic who may need attorney advice. To request legal help, click on the link and then register for the clinics under “For the Community”.

Step 3 – Get Financial Counseling (if needed)

Boulder County’s Personal Finance Program provides free and confidential individual financial coaching (including mortgage matters), in English and Spanish, to households at all income levels.

Click hereto schedule an appointment
Phone: 720-564-2279
Email: PersonalFinance@bouldercounty.org



Resources for Individuals Experiencing Homelessness
COVID-19 Recovery Center (Boulder) – by referral only, no walk-ups
On Friday, March 20, a COVID-19 Recovery Center (CRC) for unhoused individuals opened at the East Boulder Community Center to serve homeless individuals from Boulder and Longmont. Individuals who appear to show symptoms of COVID-19 and who will require further testing will be transported from homeless shelters to the CRC. At the CRC, individuals who are symptomatic or have tested positive for COVID-19 can be in isolation for 10 to 14 days. Homeless shelters have begun daily screenings for clients and will be identifying individuals who require further care.
The CRC is not a walk-up service, and individuals must be screened through an existing shelter program.
Boulder Shelter for the Homeless Service Updates
Longmont: Homeless Outreach Providing Encouragement (HOPE) now has day shelter and showers available:

Journey location: Sunday through Wednesday, 1:00 to 5:00 p.m.
FaithPoint location: Thursday through Saturday, 1:00 to 5:00 p.m.

Coordinated Entry
Boulder: Individuals in Boulder needing any shelter service are strongly encouraged to contact Boulder Coordinated Entry at 303-579-4404.
Longmont: Individuals in Longmont should contact Coordinated Entry at 303-579-7364 between 12:00 and 2:00 p.m.
The 30th Street Severe Weather Shelter (SWS) in Boulder is open from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. daily. Individuals who have been health screened will be able to wash their hands and have access to restrooms and showers on a limited basis. The SWS has also extended nightly operations (capacity of 72) through April to meet current public health needs. Those experiencing homelessness who have been screened at shelter locations and are showing signs of illness will be transported to the COVID-19 Recovery Center (CRC).
Community members interested in volunteering at the CRC can visit www.bouldercolorado.gov/crc-training for information.
The Colorado Department of Local Affairs also has comprehensive information about housing resources for those affected by COVID-19 .
Domestic Violence Shelters
For some in our community, staying home is also not safe. Social and physical isolation can increase the risk of violence in a household where it already exists or there is potential for it. If a friend or neighbor is in trouble, what can you do? See this important information in English and Spanish.
See the Staying at Home During COVID-19 Resources for Survivors of Abuse flyers in English and Spanish.
You should call 911 if you are in immediate danger.
Safehouse Progressive Alliance for Nonviolence in Boulder has a shelter and conducts outreach for survivors of domestic violence. Reach them at 303-444-2424.
Safe Shelter of St. Vrain Valley in Longmont has a shelter and conducts outreach for survivors of domestic violence. Reach them at 303-772-4422.
Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).
Boulder County, in accordance with the Fair Housing Act, prohibits discrimination in its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, disability, familial status or national origin. Reasonable accommodations and modifications may be requested to ensure equal access by people with disabilities to its programs and activities. To make a request, please call the Department of Housing and Human Services Call Center at 303/441-1000.
Unaccompanied Youth and Younger Adults (ages 12 to 24)
If you or someone you know is in need of navigation support, resources, and virtual case management or advocacy during these uncertain times, please reach out to Attention Homes. Attention Homes works with young people between the ages of 12 and 24 who are facing or experiencing homelessness. Their COVID-19 Resource Hotline is 720-282-1626.
Internet & Utilities

Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LEAP): Assists low-income families and individuals with their heating costs (this program has been extended through August 2020).
Xcel Energy: Announced no shut-offs during the emergency. If you are having difficulty paying your bills, call 1-800-895-4999 to discuss with a representative the potential for a payment plan.
Comcast Internet Essentials: Offering 2 months free service (monthly fee of $9.95 monthly fee after first two months).
Xfinity: Find a hotspot and connect for free (requires Xfinity app on phone).



Financial Assistance


Income reduced? Take these actions now:

If you can’t pay a bill on time, call the company. Many companies will work with you on a solution. See guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
If your income has been drastically reduced, apply for Colorado unemployment benefits.
Access community resources and apply for public benefits. See more below and in other sections of this page.
Avoid scams and offers of easy money. Never give your personal information or pay in response to an offer of help. See what the Federal Trade Commission has to say about this.

Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
Colorado Works (Temporary Assistance for Needy Families) provides qualifying families with cash assistance to strengthen their family’s economic and social stability.
Personal Finance Program
The Boulder County Personal Finance Program (PFP) is here to help you navigate financial uncertainty, including services such as:

Individualized financial capacity – priority payments and options during difficult times, gaining control of your money, ways to save, debt management, etc.
Mortgage questions and foreclosure intervention – reducing losses, understanding your options
Student loans and repayment programs – plans to fit your income, getting out of default, loan consolidation, loan forgiveness/deferment, credit impacts
The home buying process – home affordability and debt-to-income ratios, loan options, your credit score, purchase and down-payment assistance, etc.
Safe banking (see www.BankOnBoulderCounty.com) – connecting people with a bank account so they can receive their paychecks, unemployment benefits, and government stimulus money faster and safer, and finding banks that have accounts with very low monthly fees ($0 to $5)
Reverse mortgages – education and certificates

The PFP team offers both phone and virtual appointments to review your individual circumstance, talk about options and help you create a plan. All appointments are free and confidential, and Spanish-speaking coaches are available. Here’s how to reach us:

Request an appointment via the PFP web page (click on “Request an Appointment”)
call 720-564-2279 (option 1 for English and option 8 for Spanish) and leave a voicemail (call-backs within 48 hours), or
email PersonalFinance@BoulderCounty.org

Taxes
The federal and state income tax filing deadlines have been extended to July 15, 2020.
Student Loans
If you have federal student loans, required payments will automatically be suspended through September 30, 2020, and notifications about this should be going out soon. Interest on loans will also be paused during this time, and collections and garnishment of wages is suspended through September 30. If you are currently in the Public Student Loan Forgiveness program, these six months will count toward the 120 payments required before loan forgiveness.
Community Non-Profits
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA): Financial assistance available for utilities, rent or mortgage assistance for Boulder and southern mountain residents. See flyers in English and Spanish.
OUR Center: Housing and rental assistance available for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
Sister Carmen Community Center: Housing and rental assistance available for residents of Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie.
Unemployment and Loans
The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment has information for workers and employers who are impacted by the Coronavirus.
The U.S. Small Business Administration provides federal disaster loans for businesses, private nonprofits, homeowners, and renters.
Internet & Utilities

Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LEAP): Assists low-income families and individuals with their heating costs (this program has been extended through August 2020).
Xcel Energy: Announced no shut-offs during the emergency. If you are having difficulty paying your bills, call 1-800-895-4999 to discuss with a representative the potential for a payment plan.
Comcast Internet Essentials: Offering 2 months free service (monthly fee of $9.95 monthly fee after first two months).
Xfinity: Find a hotspot and connect for free (requires Xfinity app on phone).

Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).
Other Supports
Out Boulder County is offering one-time grants to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) community members.


Child Care


Child care availability is changing rapidly.  If you’re unsure about your usual provider’s status, contact them directly.
The Early Childhood Council of Boulder County (ECCBC) has a temporary system to connect families with licensed child care.  Families who would like help finding licensed child care should fill out the appropriate form at the links below. Someone from ECCBC will respond within 48 business hours. Forms for families:



Boulder and Mountain area families
Lafayette/Louisville area families
Longmont area families



More information is available on the ECCBC website.
Colorado Child Care Assistance Program
The Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP) provides financial assistance to eligible low-income families who need child care benefits for children from birth to age 12. CCAP is currently accepting applications for new participants, and Boulder County CCAP parent fees have been waived for April, May, and June 2020. Learn more and apply for assistance here or reach out to CCAP@BoulderCounty.org.
Mental Health Resources for Infants & Children 
The National Child Traumatic Stress Network has an introduction to infant mental health.
The Mayo Health Clinic’s guide to infant mental health.
Demystifying Infant Mental Health–a guide for primary care providers.
Harvard’s Center on the Developing Child provides advice for adjusting to stress with children.
Zero to Three provides guidance for developing strong, caring and loving relationships to help deal with stress and trauma.
Tips for caring for young children during the coronavirus outbreak.
Talking to youth about coronavirus and guidance for supporting youth in isolation.
Local Resources/Referrals:
Colorado Crisis Line: 1-844-493-8255 or text TALK to 38255
Community Resource Line: 211
Colorado Association for Infant Mental Health
Mental Health Partners: 303-443-8500
Kid Connects Warmline: 303-245-4418; provides early childhood mental health consultation services for early learning centers and for individual children in early learning environments
Community Infant Program: 303-661-0433; provides mental health services for children aged 0-3 and their primary caregivers
Nurse Family Partnership: 303-413-7500
Fussy Baby Network Colorado Warmline: 1-877-627-9227/


Food Assistance


Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)*
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
SNAP helps individuals and families buy food that is healthy and nutritious. Apply for SNAP through Colorado PEAK or through the MyCOBenefits mobile app (available on Google Play or the App Store).
Paper applications are also available. Please scan or take a clear picture of each page and email to imaging@bouldercounty.org.

English Application
Spanish Application

For SNAP application assistance, call Hunger Free Colorado at 720-382-2920, Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The State of Colorado also has comprehensive information on SNAP during COVID-19.
Colorado Pandemic EBT (P-EBT) for Families with School-Aged Children
The Colorado Department of Human Services and Department of Education will be issuing Pandemic-EBT (P-EBT) benefits to school-age children who would have received free or reduced-price meals during the time that schools have been closed for the 2019-2020 school year. This program will be available in July, in partnership with local school districts. See this link for more information.
Women, Infants & Children (WIC)
WIC provides additional food assistance for eligible mothers who are pregnant, breastfeeding, or have a child up to five years of age.

Apply Online

SNAP and WIC Participants: Fresh Produce and Grocery Online Order and Pick-Up
To help keep people safe in our community, online grocery ordering and fee-free pickup is now available for SNAP recipients at all King Soopers stores and some Walmart Locations.
SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) EBT cards can be used to purchase SNAP-eligible foods at these locations:

King Soopers locations throughout Boulder County: See this link for details. When placing your pickup order, when you get to Payment Option choose “SNAP EBT at Pickup.” When you arrive at your pickup location, swipe your EBT card to complete the order (WIC is not accepted for online purchase and grocery pickup at this time).
Walmart locations in Longmont and Broomfield (this service is not currently available at the Lafayette location): See this link for details. Customers can order online, then select EBT Card as the payment method when checking out (minimum $30 purchase for pickup). When picking up the food, the Walmart associate will have the customer swipe his or her EBT card to pay for SNAP-eligible groceries. All items not SNAP-eligible will need to be charged to another credit/debit card or with cash. Please note: never give your EBT card Personal Identification Number (PIN) to anyone, either in person or over the phone. Walmart does not currently accept WIC for grocery pickup.
Amazon: See this link for details. SNAP EBT benefits can be used on Amazon.com groceries, Amazon Pantry, and Amazon Fresh. Delivery fees vary depending on the Amazon service and amount of purchase. Customers don’t have to be a Prime member to use SNAP EBT, although Prime members may receive free delivery on some items. When shopping online using Amazing, users can filter by SNAP-eligible items. Cash on an EBT Card cannot be used through Amazon. The user must have a different payment method to pay delivery fees and for non-SNAP-eligible items.

Bagged Fruit and Vegetables Pickup Available for SNAP and WIC Recipients at the Farmers Market
SNAP recipients are eligible to pick up $20 bags of fruit and vegetables using just $10 in SNAP benefits each Saturday between 11:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. at the Boulder County Fairgrounds in Longmont – participants must sign up in advance using the Boulder County Farmers Markets’ online form, and must place orders by 7:00 p.m. the Wednesday before the Saturday pickup date. A Boulder County Farmers Market representative will swipe the SNAP EBT card when the food bag is picked up.
WIC families can receive one box per market day by using a valid eWIC card when the food bag is picked up. Again, online ordering by 7:00 p.m. the Wednesday before pickup is required.
For more information, email foodaccess@bcfm.org or text 720-551-6052.
Here is a map of stores that accept SNAP.
Food Pantries
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA) in Boulder: Food Bank will be closed for shopping; Starting grab-and-go food bags are available for pick up on the north side of the main office at 1575 Yarmouth between 12:30 and 4:30 p.m. Monday-Friday, and between 2:00 and 6:00 p.m. on Thursday for Boulder and southern mountain residents. See flyers in English and Spanish.
OUR Center in Longmont: Food pantry and grab-and-go hot lunches for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
Harvest of Hope in Boulder: Food services in parking lot available from noon to 2 p.m. Monday-Friday. Pantry is located 100 yards west of 30th street on the south side of Valmont Road in a small shopping center, west of the Circle K gas station and convenience store.
Sister Carmen Community Center in Lafayette: Food bank distributing grab-and-go food bags for residents of Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie. Hours are Monday through Friday 1:00 – 5:00 p.m. Remain in your car and staff and volunteers will load food into your trunk or backseat. If these hours don’t work for you, please call 303-665-4342 to make other arrangements.
Community Food Share in Louisville: Serving residents of Boulder County and Broomfield County. Offering drive-through food distribution at their onsite pantry (schedule here). Families should remain in the car and staff or volunteers will load food into the car. Prepackaged boxes of food are also available through the Mobile Pantry program, visit this page for locations and an up-to-date schedule. New program participants do not need to worry about typical enrollment documentation/eligibility requirements (USDA programs excluded).
Nederland Food Pantry: Food Bank is closed for shopping. Boxes of food are available for pick-up every Saturday, and the first and last Thursdays of the month, from 10:00 am to noon, in the Nederland Community Center’s upper parking Lot.
Peak to Peak Alliance: Food assistance through pantries in Nederland, Ward, Lyons, and Allenspark, financial assistance for rent/mortgage, and other services and referrals with help from the Mountain Resource Liaisons.
Lyons Community Food Pantry: free curbside drive-through service for anyone in the greater Lyons area every Wednesday from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. outside the Lyons Community Church, 350 W. Main Street.
St. John the Baptist Food Bank in Longmont: Hours of operation are Tuesdays, 10:30 a.m.-6 p.m., Wednesdays, 11 a.m.-5 p.m, and Thursdays 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. In order to minimize contact, food boxes will be brought out to residents’ cars. An application and photo ID may be required. Call 303-678-1469.
Round Pantry in Longmont (Westview Presbyterian Church): Free food distributions on the 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of each month, 2:00 to 7:00 p.m. or until they run out of food. Shoppers will drive or walk up to receive standard prepacked boxes and bags of food. Enter from eastbound lane of 15th avenue. There is no parking in church lots. No ID or proof of address required.
Meal and Grocery Delivery
Boulder Meals on Wheels: Free prepared food delivered to your home.
Coal Creek Meals on Wheels (Lafayette, Louisville, Erie, Superior): Free prepared food delivered to your home.
Cultivate’s Carry-Out Caravan: accepting new clients for grocery delivery service for members of the community who are 60 years and older and have difficulty accessing groceries on their own.
Via Mobility Services: Delivering groceries for passengers, waiving fares through end of April, increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles, trying to keep trips to one passenger at a time.
RTD Access-a-Ride: Delivering groceries to Access-a-Ride certified passengers, increasing frequency of cleaning buses.
Community Food Share: Prepackaged boxes of food are delivered to several outdoor locations through the Mobile Pantries program for individuals and families in need of food assistance. Visit the link for locations, eligibility, and an up-to-date schedule. New program participants do not need to worry about typical enrollment documentation/eligibility requirements (USDA programs excluded).
TNC – Uber: Providing disinfectants to drivers, delivering food “leave-at-door” via Uber Eats.
School Meal Distribution
Boulder Valley School District:  BVSD is distributing several meals’ worth of food items and fresh produce to families on Tuesdays and Thursdays, starting March 31 until further notice. Meal kits are available to all community members and are free of charge. Pickup between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. at the following locations:

Sanchez Elementary School
Crest View Elementary School
Columbine Elementary School
Emerald Elementary School
Louisville Middle School
Nederland Middle-Senior High School
University Hill Elementary School

Families and individuals who unable to visit the pickup sites listed about should contact BVSD  to schedule a food delivery.
St. Vrain Valley School District: SVSD is operating 11 drive-through pick-up sites where students, families, and staff can receive lunch and breakfast food items between 11:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Meals will resume starting March 30. SVVSD meal distribution locations:

Timberline PK-8
Northridge Elementary School
Altona Middle School
Sunset Middle School
Soaring Heights PK-8
Frederick High School
Mead Middle School
Lyons High School
Hygiene Elementary School (12:00 – 12:30 only)
Niwot High School (11:00 – 11:30 only)
Learning Services Center (11:00 – 11:30 only)

Families who unable to visit the pickup sites listed about should contact SVVSD  to schedule a food delivery.
*In accordance with Federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its Agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, sex, religious creed, disability, age, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity in any program or activity conducted or funded by USDA.
Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of communication for program information (e.g. Braille, large print, audiotape, American Sign Language, etc.), should contact the Agency (State or local) where they applied for benefits.  Individuals who are deaf, hard of hearing or have speech disabilities may contact USDA through the Federal Relay Service at (800) 877-8339.  Additionally, program information may be made available in languages other than English.
To file a program complaint of discrimination, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, (AD-3027) found online at: How to File a Complaint, and at any USDA office, or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992.  Submit your completed form or letter to USDA by:

mail: U.S. Department of Agriculture
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights
1400 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20250-9410;
fax: (202) 690-7442; or
email: program.intake@usda.gov.

This institution is an equal opportunity provider.


Health Coverage


Please note: Do not call 911 if you are seeking general medical advice or wish to be tested for COVID-19. If you have COVID-19 symptoms (fever, cough, shortness of breath), unless you are having trouble breathing call your health care provider before going to the doctor’s office or hospital. Consider a telehealth visit or nurseline advice before seeking in-person care. Ask your primary care provider if they offer telehealth visits, or call one of Colorado’s nurselines. You can find a list of nurselines on the state health department’s website.
Visit the Clinica (303-650-4460) or Salud Family Health Centers (303-697-2583) web pages for information on health services for low-income and uninsured residents during this time.
You can also visit covid19.colorado.gov or call 303-389-1687 if you have general questions about COVID-19. Also see the Boulder County Public Health COVID-19 information and guidance page at www.boco.org/COVID-19.
Health First Colorado (Medicaid) and Connect for Health Colorado
Health coverage is more important than ever. Anyone who has had a reduction in income or who has lost health insurance due to a job loss may be eligible for free, low-cost or subsidized health insurance.
To apply on your own:

For free or low-cost coverage through Health First Colorado (Medicaid) or Child Health Plan Plus go to Colorado PEAK or MyCOBenefits (available on Google Play or the App Store).
For financial assistance for private health insurance through Connect for Health Colorado go to ConnectforHealthCO.com or contact the customer care center at 855-752-6749.
Paper applications are also available. Please scan or take a clear photo of each page and email to imaging@bouldercounty.org

English Application
Spanish Application
To apply with help:

Contact Boulder County’s Health Coverage Guides for free and unbiased assistance (email healthcoverage@bouldercounty.org) or complete the form at the bottom of this page and we will contact you.

If you already have Health First Colorado (Medicaid), you can find a Medicaid provider at www.healthfirstcolorado.com/find-doctors. Medicaid will cover emergency care for COVID-19 for undocumented individuals and will do so retroactively (up to 90 days prior).
If you need assistance related to Medicaid, contact the Colorado Community Health Alliance, HealthTeam@CCHAcares.com, 303-256-1717 or toll free at 1-855-627-4685.
To find a free or income-based doctor, visit www.freeclinics.com.
Mental Health Supports
Mental Health Partners
Mental health and addiction recovery services are available for Mental Health Partners (MHP) clients and community members. Clinicians are operating remotely at this time. Individual clinicians will contact patients for appointments and changes. See the MHP flyer in English and Spanish for details.
National Helpline
Treatment referrals and information is available 24/7 at 1-800-662-HELP.
Substance Abuse Supports & Services
The Boulder County Substance Use Advisory Group created a resource database of services and supports for community members.
The Recovery Village is offering one-on-one counseling, group therapy, and various online services virtually with a licensed professional, improving their chances of a successful recovery.
Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).


Mental and Emotional Health


Mental Health Supports
Quick guides to mental health resources in our community are available here in English and here in Spanish.
See this helpful ongoing blog from Lori Kleinman, PhD, COVID-19: Managing the Mental Mayhem.
Mental Health Partners
Mental health and addiction recovery services are available for Mental Health Partners (MHP) clients and community members. Clinicians are operating remotely at this time. Individual clinicians will contact patients for appointments and changes. See the MHP flyer in English and Spanish for details.
The American  Academy of Pediatrics offers strategies for parents experiencing stress due to coronavirus.
Talk to your children about COVID-19, learn at home, make a schedule that works for your family, and more. See 10 Tips for Parents and Children, in English and Spanish.
Disaster Distress Helpline
Call 1-800-985-5990 or text TalkWithUs to 66746.The Disaster Distress Helpline (DDH) provides crisis counseling and support for anyone in the U.S. experiencing distress or other behavioral health concerns related to any natural or human-caused disaster, including public health emergencies.
Community Health Workers
Community Health Workers is a virtual team of Mental Health Partner’s providers who are available on Facebook to connect to the community.  Community Health Workers are available to share resources, connect people to resources, and share helpful tips. The team’s expertise includes housing, veteran affairs, and Latinx communities. Connect to Community Health workers on Facebook or through the Mental Health Partners website.
Get tips on how to maintain your mental wellness during COVID-19.
National Helpline
Treatment referrals and information is available 24/7 at 1-800-662-HELP.
Suicide Prevention
Infectious disease outbreaks such as COVID-19, as well as other public health events, can cause emotional distress and anxiety. Feeling anxious, confused, overwhelmed or powerless is common during an infectious disease outbreak, especially in the face of a virus with which the general public may be unfamiliar. These feelings of distress and anxiety can occur even if you are not at high risk of getting sick.
The Suicide Prevention Hotline has people available to provide free and confidential support 24 hours a day at 1-800-273-8355. See their website for additional supports.
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
The Lifeline provides 24/7, free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals at 1-800-273-8255.
Colorado Suicide Prevention
Need help now? Call 1-844-493-TALK (8255), text TALK to 38255, or access chat via www.coloradocrisisservices.org. Help and hope are available 24/7.
Other Supports
Crisis Text Line
Text MHA to 741741 and you’ll be connected to a trained Crisis Counselor. Crisis Text Line provides free, text-based support 24/7.
The Trevor Project
Call 1-866-488-7386 or text START to 678678. A national 24-hour, toll free confidential suicide hotline for LGBTQ youth.
Trans Lifeline
Dial 1-877-565-8860. Trans Lifeline’s Hotline is a peer support service run by trans people, for trans and questioning callers.
The National Sexual Assault Telephone Hotline
Call 1-800-656-HOPE (4673) to be connected with a trained staff member from a sexual assault service provider in your area.
Substance Use Services & Addiction Supports
The Boulder County Substance Use Advisory Group created a resource database of services and supports for community members.
Medication Assisted Treatment Support: MAT Providers
CeDar at 5495 Arapahoe Ave., Ste 101-a Boulder, CO 80303
Call to schedule intake: 720-848-3000 Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Denver Recovery Group (DRG) at 5330 Manhattan Circle, Unit H Boulder, CO 80303
Call for intake appt: 720-536-5571 Monday -Friday 6 a.m. to 12 p.m. Can call Colfax location at 303-953- 2299 until 4 p.m. to coordinate an intake at the Boulder clinic
Front Range Clinic at 4720 Table Mesa Dr. #B-100 Boulder, CO 80303
Call for intake appt: 720-476-7957 Mon, Tue, Thurs 9 am – 3:30 pm
Mental Health Partners (MHP) 3180 Airport Road
Boulder, CO 80301
Call to schedule intake appt: 303-245-4468. Leave a voicemail anytime to receive a callback to schedule assessment
BHG at 850 23rd Ave. Unit A Longmont, CO 80501
Call to schedule an appt: 303-245-0123 between 5 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Monday-Friday. Or, call our intake call center any time at 844-535-7291.
BHG offers individual and group counseling, case management, and employment support along with medication assisted treatment.
Front Range Clinic at 1308 Vivian St. Longmont, CO 80501
Call to schedule intake appt: 303-834-8809 Mon, Wed, Thurs, Fri from 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., Tues from 8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
Substance Use Supports
Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous are both doing online groups and by phone.
Alcoholics Anonymous
AA hotline 303-447- 8201
Narcotics Anonymous
Call 818.773.9999 x771
The Pheonix Sober Active Community
Holding classes virtually.
Boulder County’s Substance Abuse Intervention Program
Conducting online classes (there is a cost associated with the program).
Needle Exchange at the Following Locations:
Mental Health Partners on Airport Road in Boulder operating 24/7 -Boulder County AIDS Project operating daily 2-5 p.m. Phone-in requests at 303- 444-6121 and will meet clients at the door for pick up.
Longmont Hub at 515 Coffman staffed on Wednesdays 10:30-4:30 p.m. Phone-in requests Mondays at 303-678-6166 and will meet clients at the door for pick up on Wednesdays.


Child & Adult Protection


Child and Adult Abuse & Neglect
For some in our community, staying home is also not safe.
This is a stressful time for all of us. The uncertainty created by the COVID-19 public health emergency combined with social isolation, reduced access to employment and food, and in some cases lack of child care, is difficult for many families and individuals to endure. Please reach out to your family, friends, and neighbors by phone or video during this time, and help ensure they feel supported. Consider leaving food on neighbors’ doorsteps or connecting them with supports and services they may not know exist.
We also recognize that for some families and individuals, the difficulties are too much to handle. The Boulder County Abuse and Neglect Hotline is available 24 hours a day, every day, at 303-441-1309. We respond to concerns around potential abuse and neglect by working with families and individuals to understand their challenges and -in many cases- connecting them with supports they may need. The safety of children and at-risk adults is a top priority for us. Anyone witnessing a child or at-risk adult in a life-threatening situation should call 911 immediately.
Domestic Violence
Social and physical isolation can increase the risk of violence in a household where it already exists or there is potential for it. If a friend or neighbor is in trouble, what can you do? See this important information in English and Spanish.
See the Staying at Home During COVID-19 Resources for Survivors of Abuse flyers in English and Spanish.
You should call 911 if you are in immediate danger.
Safehouse Progressive Alliance for Nonviolence in Boulder has a shelter and conducts outreach for survivors of domestic violence. Reach them at 303-444-2424.
Safe Shelter of St. Vrain Valley in Longmont has a shelter and conducts outreach for survivors of domestic violence. Reach them at 303-772-4422.


Services for Older Adults


Boulder County Area Agency on Aging
Area Agency on Aging is offering services remotely. Meal services are no longer site-based. For more information, call 303-441-4995.
Information, Referral, or Resources
These connections include all of Boulder County, including mountain and rural communities.

Email: infoADRC@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-1617
Online Resource: bouldercountyhelp.org

Healthy Aging Programs

Email: InfoHealthyAging@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-4995 (English) or 303-441-3774 (Spanish)

Medicare Counseling
Medicare Basics information will soon be available online.

Email: medicarecounseling@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-1546 (English) or 303-678-6113 (Spanish)

Caregiver Programs

Email: infocaregiver@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-678-6116

Veterans Services Officers

Boulder

Email: jpbrown@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-3890


Longmont

Email: ktownsend@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 720-864-6663



Long-Term Care Ombudsman

Email: infoLTCO@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-1173

General Office Inquiries

Email: bcaaa@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-3570 (English) or 303-441-3867 (Spanish)

Nutrition Resources
General inquiries regarding nutrition programs and meal deliveries.

Email: tdeanni@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-4995 (English) or 303-441-3867 (Spanish)
To learn more about available Nutrition Resources across the county, visit: https://bit.ly/39F6bkJ

All older adults seeking help getting nutritious food can call Aging and Disability Resources for Colorado at 1-844-265-2372.
Meal and Grocery Delivery
Boulder Meals on Wheels: Free prepared food delivered to your home.
Coal Creek Meals on Wheels (Lafayette, Louisville, Erie, Superior): Free prepared food delivered to your home.
Cultivate’s Carry-Out Caravan: accepting new clients for grocery delivery service for members of the community who are 60 years and older and have difficulty accessing groceries on their own.
Via Mobility Services: Delivering groceries for passengers, waiving fares through end of April, increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles, trying to keep trips to one passenger at a time.
RTD Access-a-Ride: Delivering groceries to Access-a-Ride certified passengers, increasing frequency of cleaning buses.
Community Food Share: Prepackaged boxes of food are delivered to several outdoor locations through the Mobile Pantries program for individuals and families in need of food assistance. Visit the link for locations, eligibility, and an up-to-date schedule. New program participants do not need to worry about typical enrollment documentation/eligibility requirements (USDA programs excluded).
TNC – Uber: Providing disinfectants to drivers, delivering food “leave-at-door” via Uber Eats.
Grocery Shopping Hours for Older Adults
Boulder County stores have set aside shopping during morning hours for older or vulnerable adults. Be sure to call or double check the hours at your specific store before visiting.
Alfalfa’s
Daily, 7-8 a.m.
Costco
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 8-9 a.m.
King Scoopers
Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays from 7-8 a.m.
Natural Grocers
Sundays (older adults, pregnant women, people living with underlying medical conditions), 9-10 a.m.
Safeway
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 7-9 a.m.
Target
Wednesdays, 8-9 a.m.
Whole Foods
Daily, 7-8 a.m.
Walmart
Tuesdays, 6-7 a.m.
Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).


Supports for People with Disabilities


Virtual Peer Support Groups for Youth
The Center for People with Disabilities is hosting weekly peer support groups for youth between the ages of 14 and 24 to talk with each other, share, learn, and socialize. The gatherings – via Google Hangouts – are held each Wednesday from 1:00 to 2:00 p.m. There is also an option to join the discussions by phone. For information, see the CPWD flyer.
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities
The Association for Community Living (ACL) provides individual and systems advocacy to people with Intellectual/Developmental Disabilities in Boulder County. ACL is currently working remotely and through virtual meetings. Parenting groups are meeting virtually and are currently closed to new participants. More information about ACL activities is available at www.aclboulder.org.
ACL can be reached by phone at 303-527-0888. Information specific to individual advocacy can be found at https://www.aclboulder.org/individual-advocacy.
Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).


Resources for Businesses


Resources for Businesses
Boulder County has transitioned to the State of Colorado’s
Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors phase of COVID-19 response. Coloradans are no longer ordered to stay home but are strongly advised to do so. Critical businesses are open and non-critical businesses are operating with restrictions. Both the State of Colorado and Boulder County requires face coverings to be worn by anyone over the age of 12 when in public anywhere and physical distancing (at least six feet distance between yourself and others not in your household) is not possible. There are some exceptions. See the link for details. Much of Colorado is now open with restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and protect those at highest risk for severe illness.
Congress has passed and the president has signed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. This legislation extends some economic relief to businesses through tax credits and loans, much of this through the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), which provides federal disaster loans for businesses, private nonprofits, homeowners, and renters.
See the Small Business Owner’s Guide to the CARES Act.
The Boulder County Treasurers Office has been authorized to suspend or waive delinquent interest that may accrue as a result of delinquent tax payments for 30 days. See details here.
Paycheck Protection Program
The Paycheck Protection Flexibility Act has been passed into law. It is an attempt to address concerns expressed by the small business community around the Paycheck Protection Program. This article contains details.
The Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) authorizes up to $349 billion in forgivable loans to small businesses to pay their employees during the COVID-19 crisis. See the fact sheet and the list of participating lending institutions in Boulder County.
All loan terms will be the same for everyone.
The loan amounts will be forgiven as long as:

The loan proceeds are used to cover payroll costs, and most mortgage interest, rent, and
utility costs over the 8 week period after the loan is made; and
employee and compensation levels are maintained.

Payroll costs are capped at $100,000 on an annualized basis for each employee. Due to likely high subscription, it is anticipated that not more than 25% of the forgiven amount may be for non-payroll costs.
The Colorado Office of Economic Development & International Trade has a comprehensive list of COVID-19-related resources for businesses.
The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment has information for workers and employers who are impacted by the Coronavirus.
The Boulder Small Business Development Center is providing resources and information for small businesses during the COVID-19 outbreak.
The Colorado Small Business Development Center is also providing resources and information for local businesses. Landlords may qualify for supports.
Workforce Boulder County
Workforce Boulder County (WfBC) provides career services for job seekers and businesses, including veterans services and a young adult program. Due to COVID-19, their offices are closed until further notice and workshops scheduled for April have been canceled. WfBC staff are still available remotely. Please reach out in the following ways:

General questions:
Call 720-776-0822
Email: workforce@bouldercounty.org
Job listing and other information: connectingcolorado.com
Virtual resume critique or interview prep: ceinfo@bouldercounty.org
Business customers: wfbiz@bouldercounty.org
Veterans: contact Daniel Savage, Regional Veterans Employment Representative, at 720-595-1232
Visit the Workforce Boulder County web site at www.wfbc.org



Legal Help


Boulder County Legal Services
Services are available remotely.  Please call 303-449-7575 for screenings and interviews. Staff will have phone conferences to appropriately handle and communicate case dispositions.
Probation Information
The 20th judicial probation department is moving to conducting all business virtually unless  told otherwise by the Probation Officer.
If you are in jail and sentenced to probation, please call Maggie Raymor at 720-454-0710.
Re-Entry Supports
If you are recently released from jail (and a programs client), please reach out to Deborah Smith, JET Reentry Case Manager at 720-827-7880 or Ritu Tuladhar, JBBS Reentry Case Manager at 303-927-9272.
BHAP participants: contact Lindsey Lakatos at 303-830-6318 or Magali Maldonado at 720-830-7435.
COAP program participants: contact Jill Conner, Opioid Behavioral Health Reentry Coordinator at 720-830-7755.
FOCUS reentry: contact Lani at 720-662-2576 or Molly at 720-662-2577.


Donations & Volunteering


Donate
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA) provides food assistance, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health services, and much more for Boulder and the southern mountain. A donation today will help EFAA provide hundreds of grab-and go-food bags every week to individuals and families, as well as distribute emergency financial assistance for housing, utilities, and medical care to members of our community impacted by COVID-19.
Sister Carmen Community Center provides food assistance, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health and transportation services, and much more for Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie. A $75 donation provides groceries for a family for a week; $500 provides 2 months of utilities for a family; $800 keeps a family housed for one month. Donations made through ColoradoGives.org allow Sister Carmen to receive a special nonprofit gift processing rate that helps them keep their costs low.
Outreach United Resource Center (OUR Center) is in response mode due to COVID-19. Emergency relief funds will provide groceries, meals, and other assistance to help families through this crisis and unforeseen economic challenges. OUR Center is committed to serving the St. Vrain Valley community with essential needs; however, the way they provide those services will temporarily look different. Funds will provide additional homelessness prevention, purchase of groceries to meet increasing needs, and staff salaries who are experiencing a rapid change in their job duties. Aspen Center, OUR Center’s preschool, is closed for two weeks and this has a ripple effect on both families and teachers.
To Donate directly to the OUR Center with a credit card click here.
Community Food Share provides fresh, nutritious food to local partners and through its onsite and mobile pantries. Every dollar donated turns into three meals because CFS leverages local and national food donor relationships, negotiates significant savings on produce and protein purchases, engages a volunteer corps of 6,200 people and collaborates with a strong network of community partners. Donate directly here.
The Community Foundation has established the COVID-19 Response Fund Boulder County to ensure essential services for community members who find themselves at the intersection of being most vulnerable to the virus and most impacted by inequity.
Volunteer
Help those affected by volunteering or donating with HelpColoradoNow.com.
Clinical volunteers are needed for the Boulder County Medical Reserve Corps.
Local Organizations in Need


Safe Shelter of St. Vrain Valley. We continue to serve up to 160 clients each night, amidst the COVID-19 health crisis, who would otherwise have no place to stay. We have shifted to providing sack breakfast and dinner meals in effort to ensure safe delivery without the use of our regular volunteers and to permit as much “social distancing” as possible within the construct of our facility. Funding from the Neighbor to Neighbor COVID-19 Relief Fund would be used to support the costs associated with these meals as well as other necessary expenses to providing safe shelter to our clients.
Goal – $5,000
To Donate directly to Safe Shelter with a credit card click here.



Homeless Outreach Providing Encouragement (HOPE). Help meet the rising costs of protection and basic needs supplies along with extra staff time to fill the gaps. We will do everything we can to make sure our neighbors without homes have everything they need during this time. Remember, there is no donation that is too small. We are all just one person, which can seem small, but when we pull together our smallness becomes BIG!
Goal – $5,000
To Donate directly to HOPE with a credit card click here.



Cultivate has not suspended operations and the demand for Carry-Out Caravan services has grown exponentially in the last week. Our Longmont shopping day had 25% more orders than our general average and we continue to enroll new clients. Additionally, Cultivate will be contacting as many clients as possible to check in on them. We are working on a Toilet Paper and bar soap donation drive in response to a new need that has cropped up among seniors. We will look to provide and deliver these items, at no cost, to non-grocery clients that are unable to access them otherwise.
Goal – $2,000
To Donate directly to Cultivate with a credit card click here.



TLC Learning Center is committed to provide services to the families who desperately need childcare so they can return to work. We are actively working with other centers who may be closed but have partial staff that want to come over and join us, as well as the families that they serve. We particularly want to focus on first responders, medical profession, nursing home employees, and necessary city employees to be able to keep our basic infrastructure intact during this time.
Goal – $10,000
To Donate directly to TLC with a credit card click here.




Boulder Shelter for the Homeless. We continue to serve up to 160 clients each night, amidst the COVID-19 health crisis, who would otherwise have no place to stay. We have shifted to providing sack breakfast and dinner meals in effort to ensure safe delivery without the use of our regular volunteers and to permit as much “social distancing” as possible within the construct of our facility. Funds would be used to support the costs associated with these meals as well as other necessary expenses to providing safe shelter to our clients.
Goal – $5,000
To Donate directly to Boulder Shelter for the Homeless with a credit card click here.
Safehouse Progressive Alliance for Nonviolence (SPAN) continues to provide 360 degree support to survivors of domestic violence and their children amidst the crisis of COVID-19. SPAN’s emergency shelter and 24/7 crisis line remain fully operational. Our counseling, legal and housing teams are providing virtual advocacy to ensure that survivors do not feel alone and still have access to essential resources.
Goal: $7,500
Donate: directly to SPAN with a credit card, click here.








Transportation


Transportation Services
Via Mobility Services: Waiving fares through end of April, increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles, trying to keep trips to one passenger at a time, delivering groceries.
RTD Fixed-Route Buses: Waiving fares through the end of June, increasing frequency of cleaning buses, switch to rear door boarding and alighting, reducing services to Saturday service frequencies. See the services changes for details.
RTD Access-a-Ride: Increasing frequency of cleaning buses, delivering groceries to Access-a-Ride certified passengers, new applicants for service will be provided with presumptive eligibility until the time that they are able to come in for an assessment. See Access-a-Ride services. RTD also offers discount fares for qualifying individuals.
DRMAC: Stay Up To Date On Transportation Services for the Denver Metro Region.
zTrip: Increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles.
Ridehailing Lyft: Temporarily stopping shared rides, continuing to provide ridehailing services, providing hand sanitizer and cleaning supplies to drivers .
Ridehailing Uber: Providing disinfectants to drivers, continuing to provide ridehailing services, delivering food “leave-at-door” via Uber Eats.
BCycle Bikeshare: Reducing cost of Pay-per-Trip Pass (Casual Cruiser) to $1/trip (for the first 30 minutes).
PACE Bikeshare: Service is temporarily suspended 
eGo CarShare: Increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles, reducing flat/weekly rates, offering pre-paid credit packages.







Evictions Moratorium
Governor Jared Polis has signed two new executive orders designed to help keep Colorado renters in their homes during COVID-19.
The first executive order extends through July 13 certain protections against evictions for nonpayment of rent by requiring landlords to provide tenants 30 days notice (as opposed to the standard 10 days) of any default for non-payment of rent before initiating the evictions process. Tenants can use this 30 day window to cure the default. Because this order expires on July 13, landlords would need to honor the 30-day notice requirement up through that day, or wait to file a 10-day notice for default of nonpayment on July 14. This order also provides that landlords are prohibited from charging late feels or penalties for breaches of a lease or rental agreement due to nonpayment of rent that occurred between May 1 and June 13.
In the second executive order, Governor Polis orders that the $3 million already allocated to the Department of Local Affairs from the Disaster Emergency Fund continue to be available for six more months to provide short-term rental and mortgage assistance to low- and moderate-income households (at or below 80% of area median income) facing hardship due to COVID-19. These funds will continue to be distributed through state and local governments and non-profits.
In the second order, Governor Polis also “strongly encourage[s]” local governments to consider suspending or eliminating restrictions on the number of people who can live in a single household, group or boarding houses, and the number of days hotel rooms can be occupied.
The Boulder County District Attorney’s Office has issued guidance around evictions.  See this guidance in English and Spanish. 
As has been the case, during this challenging time landlords and tenants are strongly encouraged to enter into rent payment or rent delay agreements that work for both of them. Comprehensive information on housing supports during COVID-19 is available at www.boco.org/COVID-19Resources and www.boco.org/COVID-19Recursos. The Boulder County Housing Helpline (303-441-1206) is also in place to help people cover their housing costs or find ways to work with their landlords.
Income reduced? Take these actions now:

If you can’t pay a bill on time, call the company. Many companies will work with you on a solution. See guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
If your income has been drastically reduced, apply for Colorado unemployment benefits. Learn more about the newly streamlined process to apply here. You can also contact Workforce Boulder County at 720-776-0822 for assistance applying for Unemployment (in English or Spanish).
Access community resources and apply for public benefits. See more below and in other sections of this page.
Avoid scams and offers of easy money. Never give your personal information or pay in response to an offer of help. See what the Federal Trade Commission has to say about this.

If you need assistance with expenses:
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA)
Food assistance/food bank, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health services, and much more for Boulder and the southern mountains. See flyers in English and Spanish. Phone: 303-442-3042.
Sister Carmen Community Center
Food assistance/food bank, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health and transportation services, and much more for Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie.
303-665-4342
OUR Center
Food pantry, hot breakfasts & lunches, housing and rental assistance, basic health services, and more for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
303-772-5529
Peak to Peak Alliance
Food assistance through pantries in Nederland, Ward, Lyons, and Allenspark, financial assistance for rent/mortgage, and other services and referrals with help from the Mountain Resource Liaisons.
Virtual Job Fair
Workforce Boulder County is hosting a virtual job fair with local employers who are currently hiring. The job fair has recently added new employers. To participate,  create a Connecting Colorado Account and select Boulder County as a region of interest in their profile. Learn more and log on to participate in the job fair HERE.
Workforce Boulder County
Workforce Boulder County (WfBC) provides career services for job seekers and businesses, including veterans services and a young adult program. Due to COVID-19, their offices are closed until further notice and workshops scheduled for April have been canceled. WfBC staff are still available remotely, please find updates on services in English and Spanish. WfBC staff can help monolingual Spanish speakers apply for Unemployment over the phone. Reach out to Workforce Boulder County in the following ways:

General questions
Call 720-776-0822
Email: workforce@bouldercounty.org
Job listing and other information: connectingcolorado.com
Virtual resume critique or interview prep: ceinfo@bouldercounty.org
Business customers: wfbiz@bouldercounty.org
Veterans: contact Daniel Savage, Regional Veterans Employment Representative, at 720-595-1232
Visit the Workforce Boulder County web site at www.wfbc.org

Employment First
If you have an appointment with Employment First, please call your Support Specialist at the number listed on your paperwork to reschedule.
State Employment Resources
OnwardCO.org
A response site that provides support for individuals in Colorado impacted by job loss by connecting folks to essential services, online training programs, and immediate employment opportunities.
Unemployment Insurance
For information about unemployment insurance and the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment visit https://myui.coworkforce.com/Welcome or call:

Denver Metro: 303-318-9000/ Toll-Free: 1-800-388-5515
Denver Metro (in Spanish): 303-318-9333/ Toll-Free: 1-866-422-0402
Deaf and Hard of Hearing (TTY) Denver Metro: 303-318-9016/ Toll Free: 1-800-894-7730\

Personal Finance Program
The Boulder County Personal Finance Program (PFP) is here to help you navigate financial uncertainty, including services such as:

Individualized financial capacity – priority payments and options during difficult times, gaining control of your money, ways to save, debt management, etc.
Mortgage questions and foreclosure intervention – reducing losses, understanding your options
Student loans and repayment programs – plans to fit your income, getting out of default, loan consolidation, loan forgiveness/deferment, credit impacts
The home buying process – home affordability and debt-to-income ratios, loan options, your credit score, purchase and down-payment assistance, etc.
Safe banking (see www.BankOnBoulderCounty.com) – connecting people with a bank account so they can receive their paychecks, unemployment benefits, and government stimulus money faster and safer, and finding banks that have accounts with very low monthly fees ($0 to $5)
Reverse mortgages – education and certificates

The PFP team offers both phone and virtual appointments to review your individual circumstance, talk about options and help you create a plan. All appointments are free and confidential, and Spanish-speaking coaches are available. Here’s how to reach us:

Request an appointment via the PFP web page (click on “Request an Appointment”)
call 720-564-2279 (option 1 for English and option 8 for Spanish) and leave a voicemail (call-backs within 48 hours), or
email PersonalFinance@BoulderCounty.org





Here are resources and information for Boulder County Housing Authority voucher holders and tenants.
Some rental assistance is available in the community for those impacted by COVID-19. More information is below. Anyone seeking help paying for rent can call 303-441-1206 and leave a detailed message. A Housing Specialist will then return your call in 1 to 2 business days (delays are due to high call volume at this time).
Boulder County is working with our federal, state and local partners to respond to the unprecedented impacts of COVID-19 in our community. Access to a safe and stable home is crucial for all of us at all times, and especially now. The information below outlines policies and programs we are putting in place to help support renters, landlords, and homeowners through this time.
Statewide Emergency Rental Assistance Programs
The Property Owner  Preservation (POP) Program  provides assistance for landlords to help tenants who have been unable to pay rent due to financial hardship related to COVID-19.
The Emergency Housing Assistance Program (EHAP) provides assistance to tenants and mobile home park owners to help pay rent.
Understanding the Current Eviction Rules
Governor Jared Polis has signed two new executive orders designed to help keep Colorado renters in their homes during COVID-19.
The first executive order extends through July 13 certain protections against evictions for nonpayment of rent by requiring landlords to provide tenants 30 days notice (as opposed to the standard 10 days) of any default for non-payment of rent before initiating the evictions process. Tenants can use this 30 day window to cure the default. Because this order expires on July 13, landlords would need to honor the 30-day notice requirement up through that day, or wait to file a 10-day notice for default of nonpayment on July 14. This order also provides that landlords are prohibited from charging late feels or penalties for breaches of a lease or rental agreement due to nonpayment of rent that occurred between May 1 and June 13.
In the second executive order, Governor Polis orders that the $3 million already allocated to the Department of Local Affairs from the Disaster Emergency Fund continue to be available for six more months to provide short-term rental and mortgage assistance to low- and moderate-income households (at or below 80% of area median income) facing hardship due to COVID-19. These funds will continue to be distributed through state and local governments and non-profits.
In the second order, Governor Polis also “strongly encourage[s]” local governments to consider suspending or eliminating restrictions on the number of people who can live in a single household, group or boarding houses, and the number of days hotel rooms can be occupied.
As has been the case, during this challenging time landlords and tenants are strongly encouraged to enter into rent payment or rent delay agreements that work for both of them. The Boulder County Housing Helpline (303-441-1206) is also in place to help people cover their housing costs or find ways to work with their landlords.
The Boulder County District Attorney’s Office has issued guidance around evictions, including what renters should do if a landlord is repeatedly threatening eviction (for reasons not related to protecting public health and safety). See this guidance in English and Spanish. **Importantly, this guidance states the following: If a landlord or other housing provider repeatedly threatens eviction or attempts to evict while the state order is in place, the tenant should contact local law enforcement and the District Attorney’s Office.
Additional detailed information and a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) for tenants and landlords is available in the COVID-19 Rental, Evictions and Foreclosures FAQ, available in English and Spanish. Key points include:

These unique circumstances require flexibility, compromise and communication between all parties.
It is best for everyone to negotiate an agreement, taking into account the financial realities and ability of both the landlord and tenant to absorb any losses.
Communicate early and often to discuss an arrangement that could be workable to everyone.
Some options may include a payment plan, temporary rent reduction (if possible), early termination of the lease, substitute services for rent, or other solutions.
Housing providers will not be able to evict tenants – for any reason, including non-payment of rent – until after May 31. Housing providers cannot remove tenants or their belongings, or change the locks on their rental property, or shut off utilities, without first going through the eviction process.

For Tenants
It is important to know that our community’s potential need for rental assistance far exceeds the available resources.  Because we are unable to help all those struggling with covering their housing costs right now, our focus at this time is to help our lowest-income community members. As new information on state, federal, and other assistance become available, we will update this page. Please check back regularly.
Step 1 – Work with Your Landlord 
In these unprecedented times, it is important for landlords and tenants to work together to reach a compromise. Contact your landlord as soon as possible to discuss the financial realities and develop a plan that can work for both of you. Some options may include a payment plan, temporary rent reduction (if possible), substituting services for rent, or other creative solutions.  Please be sure to document any agreement in writing.
Step 2 – Use Mediation or Legal Support (if needed)

Mediation services for Boulder, Gunbarrel, Nederland and surrounding area, Louisville, and Superior: City of Boulder Mediation Program has expanded to serve all listed areas, and now has an online form for requesting services.

Phone: 303-441-4364
Email: mediation@bouldercolorado.gov


Mediation services for Longmont, Lafayette, Niwot and surrounding area, Lyons, and Allenspark: The City of Longmont Mediation Program has expanded to serve all listed areas.

Phone: 303-651-8444


Boulder County Legal Services(click “Apply Online” at the top of the webpage) – provides free civil legal services to low-income individuals in Boulder County



Phone: 303-449-7575




Boulder County Bar Association has created a free Virtual Legal Clinic for the many people affected by the current pandemic who may need attorney advice. To request legal help, click on the link and then register for the clinics under “For the Community”.

Step 3 – Apply for Rental Assistance
If you are not able to create a payment plan with your landlord and/or you are unable to reach agreement through mediation services or legal support, your household may qualify for a one-time payment to cover up to two partial or full months of rent.

First, Apply for Emergency TANF:  To qualify, the family’s total annual gross household income cannot exceed $75,000; all adult members of the household must be lawfully present in the United States, and there must be at least one related child under the age of 18 living in the home.

If your family is within these guidelines, apply online through Colorado PEAK and select “Colorado Works/TANF”.
If your household income is above $75,000 please refer to Steps 1 and 2 above to negotiate with your landlord. Rental assistance is not currently available for households over this income limit.


Second, call the Housing Help Line:  If you do not have children in your home or you otherwise do not qualify for Colorado Works/TANF, call 303-441-1206 and leave a detailed message. A Housing Specialist will then return your call in 1 to 2 business days (delays are due to high call volume at this time).
Or reach out to your local Family Resource Center:  Each of the three agencies listed below is assisting their community members with rental and other financial assistance, along with immediate access to food and many other resources.

Emergency Family Assistance Association(EFAA): Financial assistance available for utilities, rent or mortgage assistance for Boulder and southern mountain residents. See flyers in English and Spanish.
OUR Center: Financial assistance, including rental and utility support available for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
Sister Carmen Community Center: Financial assistance available for utilities, rent or mortgage support for residents of Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie.



In addition, we strongly encourage you to apply for food (SNAP) and child care assistance (CCAP), help with health coverage (Medicaid), and Unemployment benefits. See the other sections of this page for information or contact Boulder County Housing and Human Services via phone/text at 303-441-1069 or via email at hhscallcenter@bouldercounty.org.
Step 4 – Access Additional Services

Boulder County’s Personal Finance Program provides free and confidential individual financial coaching, in English and Spanish, to households at all income levels.

Click here to schedule an appointment
Phone: 720-564-2279
Email: personalfinance@bouldercounty.org


Financial assistance

See the Financial Assistance section if you have exhausted all options and are concerned you will be unable to cover your rent due to the impacts of COVID-19. You may be eligible for Unemployment Insurance or additional financial assistance.



For Landlords
Step 1 – Work with Your Tenant(s) and Lender(s)
Agencies, businesses, landlords, families and individuals need to work together. Collaboration and compromise are core to keeping our community stable. We encourage you to work with your tenants to develop a plan that works for all. Some options may include a payment plan, temporary rent reduction (if possible), substituting services for rent, or other creative solutions.
Additional detailed information and a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) for tenants and landlords is available in the COVID-19 Rental, Evictions and Foreclosures FAQ, available in English and Spanish.

Property owners facing payment issues should contact their lender immediately. Communicating with the lender early gives everyone time to develop an alternative plan. If the owner would like assistance in this process or further information, he or she should contact the Boulder County Personal Finance Program (personalfinance@bouldercounty.org and www.BoulderCountyPFP.org).
On March 18, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) enacted an “immediate foreclosure and eviction moratorium for single family homeowners with FHA-insured mortgages” for the next 60 days.
Servicers of Fannie Mae- and Freddie Mac-backed loans are instructed to work with borrowers experiencing hardship related to COVID-19. This includes suspension of payment, creating forbearance plans, and loan modification. It is expected many other lenders will follow this same guidance.
The Boulder County Personal Finance program provides free counseling by trained homeownership counselors. Included is counseling related to foreclosure, loan modification, and lender communications (www.BoulderCountyPFP.org).
Small businesses and sole proprietors may be eligible to apply for an Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL).  Learn more on the Boulder County Covid-19 Resources for Businesses page.

Step 2 – Use Mediation or Legal Support (if needed)

Mediation services for Boulder, Gunbarrel, Nederland and surrounding area, Louisville, and Superior: City of Boulder Mediation Program has expanded to serve all listed areas, and now has an online form for requesting services.

Phone: 303-441-4364
Email: mediation@bouldercolorado.gov


Mediation services for Longmont, Lafayette, Niwot and surrounding area, Lyons, and Allenspark: The City of Longmont Mediation Program has expanded to serve all listed areas.

Phone: 303-651-8444


Boulder County Legal Services (click “Apply Online” at the top of the web page) – provides free civil legal services to low-income individuals in Boulder County



Phone: 303-449-7575




Boulder County Bar Association has created a free Virtual Legal Clinic for the many people affected by the current pandemic who may need attorney advice. To request legal help, click on the link and then register for the clinics under “For the Community”.

Step 3 – Get Financial Counseling (if needed)

Boulder County’s Personal Finance Program provides free and confidential individual financial coaching (including mortgage matters), in English and Spanish, to households at all income levels.

Click hereto schedule an appointment
Phone: 720-564-2279
Email: PersonalFinance@bouldercounty.org



Resources for Individuals Experiencing Homelessness
COVID-19 Recovery Center (Boulder) – by referral only, no walk-ups
On Friday, March 20, a COVID-19 Recovery Center (CRC) for unhoused individuals opened at the East Boulder Community Center to serve homeless individuals from Boulder and Longmont. Individuals who appear to show symptoms of COVID-19 and who will require further testing will be transported from homeless shelters to the CRC. At the CRC, individuals who are symptomatic or have tested positive for COVID-19 can be in isolation for 10 to 14 days. Homeless shelters have begun daily screenings for clients and will be identifying individuals who require further care.
The CRC is not a walk-up service, and individuals must be screened through an existing shelter program.
Boulder Shelter for the Homeless Service Updates
Longmont: Homeless Outreach Providing Encouragement (HOPE) now has day shelter and showers available:

Journey location: Sunday through Wednesday, 1:00 to 5:00 p.m.
FaithPoint location: Thursday through Saturday, 1:00 to 5:00 p.m.

Coordinated Entry
Boulder: Individuals in Boulder needing any shelter service are strongly encouraged to contact Boulder Coordinated Entry at 303-579-4404.
Longmont: Individuals in Longmont should contact Coordinated Entry at 303-579-7364 between 12:00 and 2:00 p.m.
The 30th Street Severe Weather Shelter (SWS) in Boulder is open from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. daily. Individuals who have been health screened will be able to wash their hands and have access to restrooms and showers on a limited basis. The SWS has also extended nightly operations (capacity of 72) through April to meet current public health needs. Those experiencing homelessness who have been screened at shelter locations and are showing signs of illness will be transported to the COVID-19 Recovery Center (CRC).
Community members interested in volunteering at the CRC can visit www.bouldercolorado.gov/crc-training for information.
The Colorado Department of Local Affairs also has comprehensive information about housing resources for those affected by COVID-19 .
Domestic Violence Shelters
For some in our community, staying home is also not safe. Social and physical isolation can increase the risk of violence in a household where it already exists or there is potential for it. If a friend or neighbor is in trouble, what can you do? See this important information in English and Spanish.
See the Staying at Home During COVID-19 Resources for Survivors of Abuse flyers in English and Spanish.
You should call 911 if you are in immediate danger.
Safehouse Progressive Alliance for Nonviolence in Boulder has a shelter and conducts outreach for survivors of domestic violence. Reach them at 303-444-2424.
Safe Shelter of St. Vrain Valley in Longmont has a shelter and conducts outreach for survivors of domestic violence. Reach them at 303-772-4422.
Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).
Boulder County, in accordance with the Fair Housing Act, prohibits discrimination in its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, disability, familial status or national origin. Reasonable accommodations and modifications may be requested to ensure equal access by people with disabilities to its programs and activities. To make a request, please call the Department of Housing and Human Services Call Center at 303/441-1000.
Unaccompanied Youth and Younger Adults (ages 12 to 24)
If you or someone you know is in need of navigation support, resources, and virtual case management or advocacy during these uncertain times, please reach out to Attention Homes. Attention Homes works with young people between the ages of 12 and 24 who are facing or experiencing homelessness. Their COVID-19 Resource Hotline is 720-282-1626.
Internet & Utilities

Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LEAP): Assists low-income families and individuals with their heating costs (this program has been extended through August 2020).
Xcel Energy: Announced no shut-offs during the emergency. If you are having difficulty paying your bills, call 1-800-895-4999 to discuss with a representative the potential for a payment plan.
Comcast Internet Essentials: Offering 2 months free service (monthly fee of $9.95 monthly fee after first two months).
Xfinity: Find a hotspot and connect for free (requires Xfinity app on phone).





Income reduced? Take these actions now:

If you can’t pay a bill on time, call the company. Many companies will work with you on a solution. See guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
If your income has been drastically reduced, apply for Colorado unemployment benefits.
Access community resources and apply for public benefits. See more below and in other sections of this page.
Avoid scams and offers of easy money. Never give your personal information or pay in response to an offer of help. See what the Federal Trade Commission has to say about this.

Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
Colorado Works (Temporary Assistance for Needy Families) provides qualifying families with cash assistance to strengthen their family’s economic and social stability.
Personal Finance Program
The Boulder County Personal Finance Program (PFP) is here to help you navigate financial uncertainty, including services such as:

Individualized financial capacity – priority payments and options during difficult times, gaining control of your money, ways to save, debt management, etc.
Mortgage questions and foreclosure intervention – reducing losses, understanding your options
Student loans and repayment programs – plans to fit your income, getting out of default, loan consolidation, loan forgiveness/deferment, credit impacts
The home buying process – home affordability and debt-to-income ratios, loan options, your credit score, purchase and down-payment assistance, etc.
Safe banking (see www.BankOnBoulderCounty.com) – connecting people with a bank account so they can receive their paychecks, unemployment benefits, and government stimulus money faster and safer, and finding banks that have accounts with very low monthly fees ($0 to $5)
Reverse mortgages – education and certificates

The PFP team offers both phone and virtual appointments to review your individual circumstance, talk about options and help you create a plan. All appointments are free and confidential, and Spanish-speaking coaches are available. Here’s how to reach us:

Request an appointment via the PFP web page (click on “Request an Appointment”)
call 720-564-2279 (option 1 for English and option 8 for Spanish) and leave a voicemail (call-backs within 48 hours), or
email PersonalFinance@BoulderCounty.org

Taxes
The federal and state income tax filing deadlines have been extended to July 15, 2020.
Student Loans
If you have federal student loans, required payments will automatically be suspended through September 30, 2020, and notifications about this should be going out soon. Interest on loans will also be paused during this time, and collections and garnishment of wages is suspended through September 30. If you are currently in the Public Student Loan Forgiveness program, these six months will count toward the 120 payments required before loan forgiveness.
Community Non-Profits
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA): Financial assistance available for utilities, rent or mortgage assistance for Boulder and southern mountain residents. See flyers in English and Spanish.
OUR Center: Housing and rental assistance available for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
Sister Carmen Community Center: Housing and rental assistance available for residents of Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie.
Unemployment and Loans
The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment has information for workers and employers who are impacted by the Coronavirus.
The U.S. Small Business Administration provides federal disaster loans for businesses, private nonprofits, homeowners, and renters.
Internet & Utilities

Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LEAP): Assists low-income families and individuals with their heating costs (this program has been extended through August 2020).
Xcel Energy: Announced no shut-offs during the emergency. If you are having difficulty paying your bills, call 1-800-895-4999 to discuss with a representative the potential for a payment plan.
Comcast Internet Essentials: Offering 2 months free service (monthly fee of $9.95 monthly fee after first two months).
Xfinity: Find a hotspot and connect for free (requires Xfinity app on phone).

Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).
Other Supports
Out Boulder County is offering one-time grants to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) community members.




Child care availability is changing rapidly.  If you’re unsure about your usual provider’s status, contact them directly.
The Early Childhood Council of Boulder County (ECCBC) has a temporary system to connect families with licensed child care.  Families who would like help finding licensed child care should fill out the appropriate form at the links below. Someone from ECCBC will respond within 48 business hours. Forms for families:



Boulder and Mountain area families
Lafayette/Louisville area families
Longmont area families



More information is available on the ECCBC website.
Colorado Child Care Assistance Program
The Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP) provides financial assistance to eligible low-income families who need child care benefits for children from birth to age 12. CCAP is currently accepting applications for new participants, and Boulder County CCAP parent fees have been waived for April, May, and June 2020. Learn more and apply for assistance here or reach out to CCAP@BoulderCounty.org.
Mental Health Resources for Infants & Children 
The National Child Traumatic Stress Network has an introduction to infant mental health.
The Mayo Health Clinic’s guide to infant mental health.
Demystifying Infant Mental Health–a guide for primary care providers.
Harvard’s Center on the Developing Child provides advice for adjusting to stress with children.
Zero to Three provides guidance for developing strong, caring and loving relationships to help deal with stress and trauma.
Tips for caring for young children during the coronavirus outbreak.
Talking to youth about coronavirus and guidance for supporting youth in isolation.
Local Resources/Referrals:
Colorado Crisis Line: 1-844-493-8255 or text TALK to 38255
Community Resource Line: 211
Colorado Association for Infant Mental Health
Mental Health Partners: 303-443-8500
Kid Connects Warmline: 303-245-4418; provides early childhood mental health consultation services for early learning centers and for individual children in early learning environments
Community Infant Program: 303-661-0433; provides mental health services for children aged 0-3 and their primary caregivers
Nurse Family Partnership: 303-413-7500
Fussy Baby Network Colorado Warmline: 1-877-627-9227/




Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)*
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
SNAP helps individuals and families buy food that is healthy and nutritious. Apply for SNAP through Colorado PEAK or through the MyCOBenefits mobile app (available on Google Play or the App Store).
Paper applications are also available. Please scan or take a clear picture of each page and email to imaging@bouldercounty.org.

English Application
Spanish Application

For SNAP application assistance, call Hunger Free Colorado at 720-382-2920, Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The State of Colorado also has comprehensive information on SNAP during COVID-19.
Colorado Pandemic EBT (P-EBT) for Families with School-Aged Children
The Colorado Department of Human Services and Department of Education will be issuing Pandemic-EBT (P-EBT) benefits to school-age children who would have received free or reduced-price meals during the time that schools have been closed for the 2019-2020 school year. This program will be available in July, in partnership with local school districts. See this link for more information.
Women, Infants & Children (WIC)
WIC provides additional food assistance for eligible mothers who are pregnant, breastfeeding, or have a child up to five years of age.

Apply Online

SNAP and WIC Participants: Fresh Produce and Grocery Online Order and Pick-Up
To help keep people safe in our community, online grocery ordering and fee-free pickup is now available for SNAP recipients at all King Soopers stores and some Walmart Locations.
SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) EBT cards can be used to purchase SNAP-eligible foods at these locations:

King Soopers locations throughout Boulder County: See this link for details. When placing your pickup order, when you get to Payment Option choose “SNAP EBT at Pickup.” When you arrive at your pickup location, swipe your EBT card to complete the order (WIC is not accepted for online purchase and grocery pickup at this time).
Walmart locations in Longmont and Broomfield (this service is not currently available at the Lafayette location): See this link for details. Customers can order online, then select EBT Card as the payment method when checking out (minimum $30 purchase for pickup). When picking up the food, the Walmart associate will have the customer swipe his or her EBT card to pay for SNAP-eligible groceries. All items not SNAP-eligible will need to be charged to another credit/debit card or with cash. Please note: never give your EBT card Personal Identification Number (PIN) to anyone, either in person or over the phone. Walmart does not currently accept WIC for grocery pickup.
Amazon: See this link for details. SNAP EBT benefits can be used on Amazon.com groceries, Amazon Pantry, and Amazon Fresh. Delivery fees vary depending on the Amazon service and amount of purchase. Customers don’t have to be a Prime member to use SNAP EBT, although Prime members may receive free delivery on some items. When shopping online using Amazing, users can filter by SNAP-eligible items. Cash on an EBT Card cannot be used through Amazon. The user must have a different payment method to pay delivery fees and for non-SNAP-eligible items.

Bagged Fruit and Vegetables Pickup Available for SNAP and WIC Recipients at the Farmers Market
SNAP recipients are eligible to pick up $20 bags of fruit and vegetables using just $10 in SNAP benefits each Saturday between 11:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. at the Boulder County Fairgrounds in Longmont – participants must sign up in advance using the Boulder County Farmers Markets’ online form, and must place orders by 7:00 p.m. the Wednesday before the Saturday pickup date. A Boulder County Farmers Market representative will swipe the SNAP EBT card when the food bag is picked up.
WIC families can receive one box per market day by using a valid eWIC card when the food bag is picked up. Again, online ordering by 7:00 p.m. the Wednesday before pickup is required.
For more information, email foodaccess@bcfm.org or text 720-551-6052.
Here is a map of stores that accept SNAP.
Food Pantries
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA) in Boulder: Food Bank will be closed for shopping; Starting grab-and-go food bags are available for pick up on the north side of the main office at 1575 Yarmouth between 12:30 and 4:30 p.m. Monday-Friday, and between 2:00 and 6:00 p.m. on Thursday for Boulder and southern mountain residents. See flyers in English and Spanish.
OUR Center in Longmont: Food pantry and grab-and-go hot lunches for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
Harvest of Hope in Boulder: Food services in parking lot available from noon to 2 p.m. Monday-Friday. Pantry is located 100 yards west of 30th street on the south side of Valmont Road in a small shopping center, west of the Circle K gas station and convenience store.
Sister Carmen Community Center in Lafayette: Food bank distributing grab-and-go food bags for residents of Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie. Hours are Monday through Friday 1:00 – 5:00 p.m. Remain in your car and staff and volunteers will load food into your trunk or backseat. If these hours don’t work for you, please call 303-665-4342 to make other arrangements.
Community Food Share in Louisville: Serving residents of Boulder County and Broomfield County. Offering drive-through food distribution at their onsite pantry (schedule here). Families should remain in the car and staff or volunteers will load food into the car. Prepackaged boxes of food are also available through the Mobile Pantry program, visit this page for locations and an up-to-date schedule. New program participants do not need to worry about typical enrollment documentation/eligibility requirements (USDA programs excluded).
Nederland Food Pantry: Food Bank is closed for shopping. Boxes of food are available for pick-up every Saturday, and the first and last Thursdays of the month, from 10:00 am to noon, in the Nederland Community Center’s upper parking Lot.
Peak to Peak Alliance: Food assistance through pantries in Nederland, Ward, Lyons, and Allenspark, financial assistance for rent/mortgage, and other services and referrals with help from the Mountain Resource Liaisons.
Lyons Community Food Pantry: free curbside drive-through service for anyone in the greater Lyons area every Wednesday from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. outside the Lyons Community Church, 350 W. Main Street.
St. John the Baptist Food Bank in Longmont: Hours of operation are Tuesdays, 10:30 a.m.-6 p.m., Wednesdays, 11 a.m.-5 p.m, and Thursdays 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. In order to minimize contact, food boxes will be brought out to residents’ cars. An application and photo ID may be required. Call 303-678-1469.
Round Pantry in Longmont (Westview Presbyterian Church): Free food distributions on the 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of each month, 2:00 to 7:00 p.m. or until they run out of food. Shoppers will drive or walk up to receive standard prepacked boxes and bags of food. Enter from eastbound lane of 15th avenue. There is no parking in church lots. No ID or proof of address required.
Meal and Grocery Delivery
Boulder Meals on Wheels: Free prepared food delivered to your home.
Coal Creek Meals on Wheels (Lafayette, Louisville, Erie, Superior): Free prepared food delivered to your home.
Cultivate’s Carry-Out Caravan: accepting new clients for grocery delivery service for members of the community who are 60 years and older and have difficulty accessing groceries on their own.
Via Mobility Services: Delivering groceries for passengers, waiving fares through end of April, increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles, trying to keep trips to one passenger at a time.
RTD Access-a-Ride: Delivering groceries to Access-a-Ride certified passengers, increasing frequency of cleaning buses.
Community Food Share: Prepackaged boxes of food are delivered to several outdoor locations through the Mobile Pantries program for individuals and families in need of food assistance. Visit the link for locations, eligibility, and an up-to-date schedule. New program participants do not need to worry about typical enrollment documentation/eligibility requirements (USDA programs excluded).
TNC – Uber: Providing disinfectants to drivers, delivering food “leave-at-door” via Uber Eats.
School Meal Distribution
Boulder Valley School District:  BVSD is distributing several meals’ worth of food items and fresh produce to families on Tuesdays and Thursdays, starting March 31 until further notice. Meal kits are available to all community members and are free of charge. Pickup between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. at the following locations:

Sanchez Elementary School
Crest View Elementary School
Columbine Elementary School
Emerald Elementary School
Louisville Middle School
Nederland Middle-Senior High School
University Hill Elementary School

Families and individuals who unable to visit the pickup sites listed about should contact BVSD  to schedule a food delivery.
St. Vrain Valley School District: SVSD is operating 11 drive-through pick-up sites where students, families, and staff can receive lunch and breakfast food items between 11:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Meals will resume starting March 30. SVVSD meal distribution locations:

Timberline PK-8
Northridge Elementary School
Altona Middle School
Sunset Middle School
Soaring Heights PK-8
Frederick High School
Mead Middle School
Lyons High School
Hygiene Elementary School (12:00 – 12:30 only)
Niwot High School (11:00 – 11:30 only)
Learning Services Center (11:00 – 11:30 only)

Families who unable to visit the pickup sites listed about should contact SVVSD  to schedule a food delivery.
*In accordance with Federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its Agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, sex, religious creed, disability, age, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity in any program or activity conducted or funded by USDA.
Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of communication for program information (e.g. Braille, large print, audiotape, American Sign Language, etc.), should contact the Agency (State or local) where they applied for benefits.  Individuals who are deaf, hard of hearing or have speech disabilities may contact USDA through the Federal Relay Service at (800) 877-8339.  Additionally, program information may be made available in languages other than English.
To file a program complaint of discrimination, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, (AD-3027) found online at: How to File a Complaint, and at any USDA office, or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992.  Submit your completed form or letter to USDA by:

mail: U.S. Department of Agriculture
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights
1400 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20250-9410;
fax: (202) 690-7442; or
email: program.intake@usda.gov.

This institution is an equal opportunity provider.




Please note: Do not call 911 if you are seeking general medical advice or wish to be tested for COVID-19. If you have COVID-19 symptoms (fever, cough, shortness of breath), unless you are having trouble breathing call your health care provider before going to the doctor’s office or hospital. Consider a telehealth visit or nurseline advice before seeking in-person care. Ask your primary care provider if they offer telehealth visits, or call one of Colorado’s nurselines. You can find a list of nurselines on the state health department’s website.
Visit the Clinica (303-650-4460) or Salud Family Health Centers (303-697-2583) web pages for information on health services for low-income and uninsured residents during this time.
You can also visit covid19.colorado.gov or call 303-389-1687 if you have general questions about COVID-19. Also see the Boulder County Public Health COVID-19 information and guidance page at www.boco.org/COVID-19.
Health First Colorado (Medicaid) and Connect for Health Colorado
Health coverage is more important than ever. Anyone who has had a reduction in income or who has lost health insurance due to a job loss may be eligible for free, low-cost or subsidized health insurance.
To apply on your own:

For free or low-cost coverage through Health First Colorado (Medicaid) or Child Health Plan Plus go to Colorado PEAK or MyCOBenefits (available on Google Play or the App Store).
For financial assistance for private health insurance through Connect for Health Colorado go to ConnectforHealthCO.com or contact the customer care center at 855-752-6749.
Paper applications are also available. Please scan or take a clear photo of each page and email to imaging@bouldercounty.org

English Application
Spanish Application
To apply with help:

Contact Boulder County’s Health Coverage Guides for free and unbiased assistance (email healthcoverage@bouldercounty.org) or complete the form at the bottom of this page and we will contact you.

If you already have Health First Colorado (Medicaid), you can find a Medicaid provider at www.healthfirstcolorado.com/find-doctors. Medicaid will cover emergency care for COVID-19 for undocumented individuals and will do so retroactively (up to 90 days prior).
If you need assistance related to Medicaid, contact the Colorado Community Health Alliance, HealthTeam@CCHAcares.com, 303-256-1717 or toll free at 1-855-627-4685.
To find a free or income-based doctor, visit www.freeclinics.com.
Mental Health Supports
Mental Health Partners
Mental health and addiction recovery services are available for Mental Health Partners (MHP) clients and community members. Clinicians are operating remotely at this time. Individual clinicians will contact patients for appointments and changes. See the MHP flyer in English and Spanish for details.
National Helpline
Treatment referrals and information is available 24/7 at 1-800-662-HELP.
Substance Abuse Supports & Services
The Boulder County Substance Use Advisory Group created a resource database of services and supports for community members.
The Recovery Village is offering one-on-one counseling, group therapy, and various online services virtually with a licensed professional, improving their chances of a successful recovery.
Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).




Mental Health Supports
Quick guides to mental health resources in our community are available here in English and here in Spanish.
See this helpful ongoing blog from Lori Kleinman, PhD, COVID-19: Managing the Mental Mayhem.
Mental Health Partners
Mental health and addiction recovery services are available for Mental Health Partners (MHP) clients and community members. Clinicians are operating remotely at this time. Individual clinicians will contact patients for appointments and changes. See the MHP flyer in English and Spanish for details.
The American  Academy of Pediatrics offers strategies for parents experiencing stress due to coronavirus.
Talk to your children about COVID-19, learn at home, make a schedule that works for your family, and more. See 10 Tips for Parents and Children, in English and Spanish.
Disaster Distress Helpline
Call 1-800-985-5990 or text TalkWithUs to 66746.The Disaster Distress Helpline (DDH) provides crisis counseling and support for anyone in the U.S. experiencing distress or other behavioral health concerns related to any natural or human-caused disaster, including public health emergencies.
Community Health Workers
Community Health Workers is a virtual team of Mental Health Partner’s providers who are available on Facebook to connect to the community.  Community Health Workers are available to share resources, connect people to resources, and share helpful tips. The team’s expertise includes housing, veteran affairs, and Latinx communities. Connect to Community Health workers on Facebook or through the Mental Health Partners website.
Get tips on how to maintain your mental wellness during COVID-19.
National Helpline
Treatment referrals and information is available 24/7 at 1-800-662-HELP.
Suicide Prevention
Infectious disease outbreaks such as COVID-19, as well as other public health events, can cause emotional distress and anxiety. Feeling anxious, confused, overwhelmed or powerless is common during an infectious disease outbreak, especially in the face of a virus with which the general public may be unfamiliar. These feelings of distress and anxiety can occur even if you are not at high risk of getting sick.
The Suicide Prevention Hotline has people available to provide free and confidential support 24 hours a day at 1-800-273-8355. See their website for additional supports.
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
The Lifeline provides 24/7, free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals at 1-800-273-8255.
Colorado Suicide Prevention
Need help now? Call 1-844-493-TALK (8255), text TALK to 38255, or access chat via www.coloradocrisisservices.org. Help and hope are available 24/7.
Other Supports
Crisis Text Line
Text MHA to 741741 and you’ll be connected to a trained Crisis Counselor. Crisis Text Line provides free, text-based support 24/7.
The Trevor Project
Call 1-866-488-7386 or text START to 678678. A national 24-hour, toll free confidential suicide hotline for LGBTQ youth.
Trans Lifeline
Dial 1-877-565-8860. Trans Lifeline’s Hotline is a peer support service run by trans people, for trans and questioning callers.
The National Sexual Assault Telephone Hotline
Call 1-800-656-HOPE (4673) to be connected with a trained staff member from a sexual assault service provider in your area.
Substance Use Services & Addiction Supports
The Boulder County Substance Use Advisory Group created a resource database of services and supports for community members.
Medication Assisted Treatment Support: MAT Providers
CeDar at 5495 Arapahoe Ave., Ste 101-a Boulder, CO 80303
Call to schedule intake: 720-848-3000 Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Denver Recovery Group (DRG) at 5330 Manhattan Circle, Unit H Boulder, CO 80303
Call for intake appt: 720-536-5571 Monday -Friday 6 a.m. to 12 p.m. Can call Colfax location at 303-953- 2299 until 4 p.m. to coordinate an intake at the Boulder clinic
Front Range Clinic at 4720 Table Mesa Dr. #B-100 Boulder, CO 80303
Call for intake appt: 720-476-7957 Mon, Tue, Thurs 9 am – 3:30 pm
Mental Health Partners (MHP) 3180 Airport Road
Boulder, CO 80301
Call to schedule intake appt: 303-245-4468. Leave a voicemail anytime to receive a callback to schedule assessment
BHG at 850 23rd Ave. Unit A Longmont, CO 80501
Call to schedule an appt: 303-245-0123 between 5 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Monday-Friday. Or, call our intake call center any time at 844-535-7291.
BHG offers individual and group counseling, case management, and employment support along with medication assisted treatment.
Front Range Clinic at 1308 Vivian St. Longmont, CO 80501
Call to schedule intake appt: 303-834-8809 Mon, Wed, Thurs, Fri from 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., Tues from 8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
Substance Use Supports
Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous are both doing online groups and by phone.
Alcoholics Anonymous
AA hotline 303-447- 8201
Narcotics Anonymous
Call 818.773.9999 x771
The Pheonix Sober Active Community
Holding classes virtually.
Boulder County’s Substance Abuse Intervention Program
Conducting online classes (there is a cost associated with the program).
Needle Exchange at the Following Locations:
Mental Health Partners on Airport Road in Boulder operating 24/7 -Boulder County AIDS Project operating daily 2-5 p.m. Phone-in requests at 303- 444-6121 and will meet clients at the door for pick up.
Longmont Hub at 515 Coffman staffed on Wednesdays 10:30-4:30 p.m. Phone-in requests Mondays at 303-678-6166 and will meet clients at the door for pick up on Wednesdays.




Child and Adult Abuse & Neglect
For some in our community, staying home is also not safe.
This is a stressful time for all of us. The uncertainty created by the COVID-19 public health emergency combined with social isolation, reduced access to employment and food, and in some cases lack of child care, is difficult for many families and individuals to endure. Please reach out to your family, friends, and neighbors by phone or video during this time, and help ensure they feel supported. Consider leaving food on neighbors’ doorsteps or connecting them with supports and services they may not know exist.
We also recognize that for some families and individuals, the difficulties are too much to handle. The Boulder County Abuse and Neglect Hotline is available 24 hours a day, every day, at 303-441-1309. We respond to concerns around potential abuse and neglect by working with families and individuals to understand their challenges and -in many cases- connecting them with supports they may need. The safety of children and at-risk adults is a top priority for us. Anyone witnessing a child or at-risk adult in a life-threatening situation should call 911 immediately.
Domestic Violence
Social and physical isolation can increase the risk of violence in a household where it already exists or there is potential for it. If a friend or neighbor is in trouble, what can you do? See this important information in English and Spanish.
See the Staying at Home During COVID-19 Resources for Survivors of Abuse flyers in English and Spanish.
You should call 911 if you are in immediate danger.
Safehouse Progressive Alliance for Nonviolence in Boulder has a shelter and conducts outreach for survivors of domestic violence. Reach them at 303-444-2424.
Safe Shelter of St. Vrain Valley in Longmont has a shelter and conducts outreach for survivors of domestic violence. Reach them at 303-772-4422.




Boulder County Area Agency on Aging
Area Agency on Aging is offering services remotely. Meal services are no longer site-based. For more information, call 303-441-4995.
Information, Referral, or Resources
These connections include all of Boulder County, including mountain and rural communities.

Email: infoADRC@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-1617
Online Resource: bouldercountyhelp.org

Healthy Aging Programs

Email: InfoHealthyAging@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-4995 (English) or 303-441-3774 (Spanish)

Medicare Counseling
Medicare Basics information will soon be available online.

Email: medicarecounseling@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-1546 (English) or 303-678-6113 (Spanish)

Caregiver Programs

Email: infocaregiver@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-678-6116

Veterans Services Officers

Boulder

Email: jpbrown@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-3890


Longmont

Email: ktownsend@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 720-864-6663



Long-Term Care Ombudsman

Email: infoLTCO@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-1173

General Office Inquiries

Email: bcaaa@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-3570 (English) or 303-441-3867 (Spanish)

Nutrition Resources
General inquiries regarding nutrition programs and meal deliveries.

Email: tdeanni@bouldercounty.org
Phone: 303-441-4995 (English) or 303-441-3867 (Spanish)
To learn more about available Nutrition Resources across the county, visit: https://bit.ly/39F6bkJ

All older adults seeking help getting nutritious food can call Aging and Disability Resources for Colorado at 1-844-265-2372.
Meal and Grocery Delivery
Boulder Meals on Wheels: Free prepared food delivered to your home.
Coal Creek Meals on Wheels (Lafayette, Louisville, Erie, Superior): Free prepared food delivered to your home.
Cultivate’s Carry-Out Caravan: accepting new clients for grocery delivery service for members of the community who are 60 years and older and have difficulty accessing groceries on their own.
Via Mobility Services: Delivering groceries for passengers, waiving fares through end of April, increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles, trying to keep trips to one passenger at a time.
RTD Access-a-Ride: Delivering groceries to Access-a-Ride certified passengers, increasing frequency of cleaning buses.
Community Food Share: Prepackaged boxes of food are delivered to several outdoor locations through the Mobile Pantries program for individuals and families in need of food assistance. Visit the link for locations, eligibility, and an up-to-date schedule. New program participants do not need to worry about typical enrollment documentation/eligibility requirements (USDA programs excluded).
TNC – Uber: Providing disinfectants to drivers, delivering food “leave-at-door” via Uber Eats.
Grocery Shopping Hours for Older Adults
Boulder County stores have set aside shopping during morning hours for older or vulnerable adults. Be sure to call or double check the hours at your specific store before visiting.
Alfalfa’s
Daily, 7-8 a.m.
Costco
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 8-9 a.m.
King Scoopers
Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays from 7-8 a.m.
Natural Grocers
Sundays (older adults, pregnant women, people living with underlying medical conditions), 9-10 a.m.
Safeway
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 7-9 a.m.
Target
Wednesdays, 8-9 a.m.
Whole Foods
Daily, 7-8 a.m.
Walmart
Tuesdays, 6-7 a.m.
Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).




Virtual Peer Support Groups for Youth
The Center for People with Disabilities is hosting weekly peer support groups for youth between the ages of 14 and 24 to talk with each other, share, learn, and socialize. The gatherings – via Google Hangouts – are held each Wednesday from 1:00 to 2:00 p.m. There is also an option to join the discussions by phone. For information, see the CPWD flyer.
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities
The Association for Community Living (ACL) provides individual and systems advocacy to people with Intellectual/Developmental Disabilities in Boulder County. ACL is currently working remotely and through virtual meetings. Parenting groups are meeting virtually and are currently closed to new participants. More information about ACL activities is available at www.aclboulder.org.
ACL can be reached by phone at 303-527-0888. Information specific to individual advocacy can be found at https://www.aclboulder.org/individual-advocacy.
Veteran Services
Boulder County Veteran Services develops and submits claims for benefits to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation, pension, death pension, medical benefits, burial benefits, insurance, education, home loans, records requests, and various benefits through other government agencies.  BCVS is conducting all services and appointments remotely at this time. Contact the Veterans Services Offices at 303-441-3890 (Boulder) or 720-864-6663 (Longmont).




Resources for Businesses
Boulder County has transitioned to the State of Colorado’s
Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors phase of COVID-19 response. Coloradans are no longer ordered to stay home but are strongly advised to do so. Critical businesses are open and non-critical businesses are operating with restrictions. Both the State of Colorado and Boulder County requires face coverings to be worn by anyone over the age of 12 when in public anywhere and physical distancing (at least six feet distance between yourself and others not in your household) is not possible. There are some exceptions. See the link for details. Much of Colorado is now open with restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and protect those at highest risk for severe illness.
Congress has passed and the president has signed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. This legislation extends some economic relief to businesses through tax credits and loans, much of this through the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), which provides federal disaster loans for businesses, private nonprofits, homeowners, and renters.
See the Small Business Owner’s Guide to the CARES Act.
The Boulder County Treasurers Office has been authorized to suspend or waive delinquent interest that may accrue as a result of delinquent tax payments for 30 days. See details here.
Paycheck Protection Program
The Paycheck Protection Flexibility Act has been passed into law. It is an attempt to address concerns expressed by the small business community around the Paycheck Protection Program. This article contains details.
The Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) authorizes up to $349 billion in forgivable loans to small businesses to pay their employees during the COVID-19 crisis. See the fact sheet and the list of participating lending institutions in Boulder County.
All loan terms will be the same for everyone.
The loan amounts will be forgiven as long as:

The loan proceeds are used to cover payroll costs, and most mortgage interest, rent, and
utility costs over the 8 week period after the loan is made; and
employee and compensation levels are maintained.

Payroll costs are capped at $100,000 on an annualized basis for each employee. Due to likely high subscription, it is anticipated that not more than 25% of the forgiven amount may be for non-payroll costs.
The Colorado Office of Economic Development & International Trade has a comprehensive list of COVID-19-related resources for businesses.
The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment has information for workers and employers who are impacted by the Coronavirus.
The Boulder Small Business Development Center is providing resources and information for small businesses during the COVID-19 outbreak.
The Colorado Small Business Development Center is also providing resources and information for local businesses. Landlords may qualify for supports.
Workforce Boulder County
Workforce Boulder County (WfBC) provides career services for job seekers and businesses, including veterans services and a young adult program. Due to COVID-19, their offices are closed until further notice and workshops scheduled for April have been canceled. WfBC staff are still available remotely. Please reach out in the following ways:

General questions:
Call 720-776-0822
Email: workforce@bouldercounty.org
Job listing and other information: connectingcolorado.com
Virtual resume critique or interview prep: ceinfo@bouldercounty.org
Business customers: wfbiz@bouldercounty.org
Veterans: contact Daniel Savage, Regional Veterans Employment Representative, at 720-595-1232
Visit the Workforce Boulder County web site at www.wfbc.org





Boulder County Legal Services
Services are available remotely.  Please call 303-449-7575 for screenings and interviews. Staff will have phone conferences to appropriately handle and communicate case dispositions.
Probation Information
The 20th judicial probation department is moving to conducting all business virtually unless  told otherwise by the Probation Officer.
If you are in jail and sentenced to probation, please call Maggie Raymor at 720-454-0710.
Re-Entry Supports
If you are recently released from jail (and a programs client), please reach out to Deborah Smith, JET Reentry Case Manager at 720-827-7880 or Ritu Tuladhar, JBBS Reentry Case Manager at 303-927-9272.
BHAP participants: contact Lindsey Lakatos at 303-830-6318 or Magali Maldonado at 720-830-7435.
COAP program participants: contact Jill Conner, Opioid Behavioral Health Reentry Coordinator at 720-830-7755.
FOCUS reentry: contact Lani at 720-662-2576 or Molly at 720-662-2577.




Donate
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA) provides food assistance, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health services, and much more for Boulder and the southern mountain. A donation today will help EFAA provide hundreds of grab-and go-food bags every week to individuals and families, as well as distribute emergency financial assistance for housing, utilities, and medical care to members of our community impacted by COVID-19.
Sister Carmen Community Center provides food assistance, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health and transportation services, and much more for Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie. A $75 donation provides groceries for a family for a week; $500 provides 2 months of utilities for a family; $800 keeps a family housed for one month. Donations made through ColoradoGives.org allow Sister Carmen to receive a special nonprofit gift processing rate that helps them keep their costs low.
Outreach United Resource Center (OUR Center) is in response mode due to COVID-19. Emergency relief funds will provide groceries, meals, and other assistance to help families through this crisis and unforeseen economic challenges. OUR Center is committed to serving the St. Vrain Valley community with essential needs; however, the way they provide those services will temporarily look different. Funds will provide additional homelessness prevention, purchase of groceries to meet increasing needs, and staff salaries who are experiencing a rapid change in their job duties. Aspen Center, OUR Center’s preschool, is closed for two weeks and this has a ripple effect on both families and teachers.
To Donate directly to the OUR Center with a credit card click here.
Community Food Share provides fresh, nutritious food to local partners and through its onsite and mobile pantries. Every dollar donated turns into three meals because CFS leverages local and national food donor relationships, negotiates significant savings on produce and protein purchases, engages a volunteer corps of 6,200 people and collaborates with a strong network of community partners. Donate directly here.
The Community Foundation has established the COVID-19 Response Fund Boulder County to ensure essential services for community members who find themselves at the intersection of being most vulnerable to the virus and most impacted by inequity.
Volunteer
Help those affected by volunteering or donating with HelpColoradoNow.com.
Clinical volunteers are needed for the Boulder County Medical Reserve Corps.
Local Organizations in Need


Safe Shelter of St. Vrain Valley. We continue to serve up to 160 clients each night, amidst the COVID-19 health crisis, who would otherwise have no place to stay. We have shifted to providing sack breakfast and dinner meals in effort to ensure safe delivery without the use of our regular volunteers and to permit as much “social distancing” as possible within the construct of our facility. Funding from the Neighbor to Neighbor COVID-19 Relief Fund would be used to support the costs associated with these meals as well as other necessary expenses to providing safe shelter to our clients.
Goal – $5,000
To Donate directly to Safe Shelter with a credit card click here.



Homeless Outreach Providing Encouragement (HOPE). Help meet the rising costs of protection and basic needs supplies along with extra staff time to fill the gaps. We will do everything we can to make sure our neighbors without homes have everything they need during this time. Remember, there is no donation that is too small. We are all just one person, which can seem small, but when we pull together our smallness becomes BIG!
Goal – $5,000
To Donate directly to HOPE with a credit card click here.



Cultivate has not suspended operations and the demand for Carry-Out Caravan services has grown exponentially in the last week. Our Longmont shopping day had 25% more orders than our general average and we continue to enroll new clients. Additionally, Cultivate will be contacting as many clients as possible to check in on them. We are working on a Toilet Paper and bar soap donation drive in response to a new need that has cropped up among seniors. We will look to provide and deliver these items, at no cost, to non-grocery clients that are unable to access them otherwise.
Goal – $2,000
To Donate directly to Cultivate with a credit card click here.



TLC Learning Center is committed to provide services to the families who desperately need childcare so they can return to work. We are actively working with other centers who may be closed but have partial staff that want to come over and join us, as well as the families that they serve. We particularly want to focus on first responders, medical profession, nursing home employees, and necessary city employees to be able to keep our basic infrastructure intact during this time.
Goal – $10,000
To Donate directly to TLC with a credit card click here.




Boulder Shelter for the Homeless. We continue to serve up to 160 clients each night, amidst the COVID-19 health crisis, who would otherwise have no place to stay. We have shifted to providing sack breakfast and dinner meals in effort to ensure safe delivery without the use of our regular volunteers and to permit as much “social distancing” as possible within the construct of our facility. Funds would be used to support the costs associated with these meals as well as other necessary expenses to providing safe shelter to our clients.
Goal – $5,000
To Donate directly to Boulder Shelter for the Homeless with a credit card click here.
Safehouse Progressive Alliance for Nonviolence (SPAN) continues to provide 360 degree support to survivors of domestic violence and their children amidst the crisis of COVID-19. SPAN’s emergency shelter and 24/7 crisis line remain fully operational. Our counseling, legal and housing teams are providing virtual advocacy to ensure that survivors do not feel alone and still have access to essential resources.
Goal: $7,500
Donate: directly to SPAN with a credit card, click here.










Transportation Services
Via Mobility Services: Waiving fares through end of April, increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles, trying to keep trips to one passenger at a time, delivering groceries.
RTD Fixed-Route Buses: Waiving fares through the end of June, increasing frequency of cleaning buses, switch to rear door boarding and alighting, reducing services to Saturday service frequencies. See the services changes for details.
RTD Access-a-Ride: Increasing frequency of cleaning buses, delivering groceries to Access-a-Ride certified passengers, new applicants for service will be provided with presumptive eligibility until the time that they are able to come in for an assessment. See Access-a-Ride services. RTD also offers discount fares for qualifying individuals.
DRMAC: Stay Up To Date On Transportation Services for the Denver Metro Region.
zTrip: Increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles.
Ridehailing Lyft: Temporarily stopping shared rides, continuing to provide ridehailing services, providing hand sanitizer and cleaning supplies to drivers .
Ridehailing Uber: Providing disinfectants to drivers, continuing to provide ridehailing services, delivering food “leave-at-door” via Uber Eats.
BCycle Bikeshare: Reducing cost of Pay-per-Trip Pass (Casual Cruiser) to $1/trip (for the first 30 minutes).
PACE Bikeshare: Service is temporarily suspended 
eGo CarShare: Increasing frequency of cleaning and sanitizing vehicles, reducing flat/weekly rates, offering pre-paid credit packages.





Boulder County Offices Remain Closed to the Public
Most services are still being provided online. Some services are by appointment only. See the county online services page for details.
Immigrant Resources
In addition to the many supports on this page, Boulder County has a list of resources for immigrants in English and en Español, including community organizations, legal services, policy information, and more.






General Community Resources
Many community partner organizations are operating at reduced capacity. Consult their web sites or contact them for details about their services and hours.
HHS Program and Community Guide (English)
A full list of resources available throughout our community. All HHS services except child and adult protection are currently being provided online only.
HHS Guía de Programas y Recursos Comunitarios (Español)
Lista completa de recursos disponibles en la comunidad.
Colorado 211
Statewide database of community resources.
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA)
Food assistance/food bank, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health services, and much more for Boulder and the southern mountains.
303-442-3042
Sister Carmen Community Center
Food assistance/food bank, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health and transportation services, and much more for Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie.
303-665-4342
OUR Center
Food pantry, hot breakfasts & lunches, housing and rental assistance, basic health services, and more for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
303-772-5529
Peak to Peak Alliance
Food assistance through pantries in Nederland, Ward, Lyons, and Allenspark, financial assistance for rent/mortgage, and other services and referrals with help from the Mountain Resource Liaisons.
Mental Health Partners
Mental health supports in Boulder and Broomfield Counties. You can call, complete the secure online form, or visit a walk-in location.
303-443-8500

Boulder County Legal Services
Services are available remotely.  Please call (303) 449-7575 for screenings and interviews.  Staff will have phone conferences to appropriately handle and communicate case dispositions.
Workers & Employers Impacted by Coronavirus
Department of Labor and Employment
Information for workers and employers who are impacted by the Coronavirus.

Workforce Boulder County has local resources for local businesses.
Colorado COVID-19 Business Resource Center is a statewide database of resources for local businesses.
Boulder Small Business Development Center has resources and programs available for Boulder County Businesses.
CDC Guidance for Businesses and Employers for planning and preparation
Volunteers & Donations
HelpColoradoNow.com
Help those affected by COVID-19 by volunteering or donating.






General Community Resources
Many community partner organizations are operating at reduced capacity. Consult their web sites or contact them for details about their services and hours.
HHS Program and Community Guide (English)
A full list of resources available throughout our community. All HHS services except child and adult protection are currently being provided online only.
HHS Guía de Programas y Recursos Comunitarios (Español)
Lista completa de recursos disponibles en la comunidad.
Colorado 211
Statewide database of community resources.
Emergency Family Assistance Association (EFAA)
Food assistance/food bank, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health services, and much more for Boulder and the southern mountains.
303-442-3042
Sister Carmen Community Center
Food assistance/food bank, financial assistance for utilities, rent or mortgage, health and transportation services, and much more for Lafayette, Louisville, Superior, and Erie.
303-665-4342
OUR Center
Food pantry, hot breakfasts & lunches, housing and rental assistance, basic health services, and more for residents of the St. Vrain Valley School District, including the northern mountains.
303-772-5529
Peak to Peak Alliance
Food assistance through pantries in Nederland, Ward, Lyons, and Allenspark, financial assistance for rent/mortgage, and other services and referrals with help from the Mountain Resource Liaisons.
Mental Health Partners
Mental health supports in Boulder and Broomfield Counties. You can call, complete the secure online form, or visit a walk-in location.
303-443-8500

Boulder County Legal Services
Services are available remotely.  Please call (303) 449-7575 for screenings and interviews.  Staff will have phone conferences to appropriately handle and communicate case dispositions.
Workers & Employers Impacted by Coronavirus
Department of Labor and Employment
Information for workers and employers who are impacted by the Coronavirus.

Workforce Boulder County has local resources for local businesses.
Colorado COVID-19 Business Resource Center is a statewide database of resources for local businesses.
Boulder Small Business Development Center has resources and programs available for Boulder County Businesses.
CDC Guidance for Businesses and Employers for planning and preparation
Volunteers & Donations
HelpColoradoNow.com
Help those affected by COVID-19 by volunteering or donating.



--------------------------------------------


Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/families/disease/covid-19/prevention/






En Español
Mental Health Blog: Managing the Mental Mayhem


Individual Actions


Individual Actions
Now that the virus is actively spreading in the community, it is vital to practice appropriate wellness and hygiene activities, and maintain proper distancing between yourself and others.
Risks & Benefits
When deciding which activities you are comfortable participating in, ask yourself the following questions:

How many other people will be participating in this activity?
Is the activity outside?
Can I put distance between myself and others?
How long will the activity take?
Do I feel 100% healthy?
How will I get there? Biking, walking, and driving in a car are all safer than public transportation.
Do I live with someone who is more vulnerable to COVID-19, and would be at high risk if I happened to bring the virus home?
What is the value of this activity to me versus the risk I am taking?

Visit https://covid19.colorado.gov/risks-benefits to learn more about assessing the risk level of certain activities.
 
Practice Social Distancing
Maintain at least six feet between yourself and others. Six feet is about the length of a bicycle of pair of snow skis.
Take Everyday Wellness Actions

Wash your hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, us an alcohol-based hand rub.
Cover your nose and mouth when coughing and sneezing.
Avoid close contact with anyone with cold or flu-like symptoms.
Stay home if you are sick.
Get an annual flu vaccine if you have not had one.

Practice Good Hygiene

Practicing not touching your face. This can greatly reduce the frequency of potential spread. (You can even try a buddy system, where you and a friend remind each other when someone scratches their eyelid or rubs their nose.)
Replace handshakes with elbow-bumps.
Build healthy habits like pushing elevator buttons with a knuckle instead of a fingertip.
Avoid sharing anything, such as e-cigarettes, drinks, etc.
Increase regular cleaning of frequently-touched items (e.g. doorknobs, faucet handles, etc.)
Use a cleaning product effective for COVID-19

EPA list of cleaning products
Other effective cleaning products
Environmental cleaning guidance



Wear a Face Covering (Mask)

Cloth masks and face coverings can help slow the spread of COVID-19. However, they do not provide full protection from transmission and it’s still critical to wash your hands, follow stay-at-home orders and adhere to social distancing guidelines. Learn more at the Colorado Mask Project.
Gather a Few Extra Supplies

Try to get an extra months’ worth of prescription medications, if possible, in case there are supply chain disruptions.
Slowly start to stock up on enough non-perishable food to last your household through two weeks of staying at home if there is a wave of transmission in the community.

Take Care of Your Emotional Health
Coping with the feelings related to COVID-19, and getting help when you need it can help you, your family, and your community recover.

Learn more about healthy coping practices
Look for tips and suggestion on our Mental Health Blog



Social Distancing Tips


Guidance for Social Distancing
The COVID-19 outbreak calls on the Boulder County community to think creatively about how to meet everyone’s basic needs and maintain social connections while also slowing the spread of disease using social distancing practices (e.g. staying at least 6 feet away from others).
In general, stay at home except for Essential Activities. When planning Essential Activities, consider these tips:





Keep household members away from others if they’re sick. Contact their healthcare provider if you have concerns.
Continue to take everyday wellness actions and teach your kids to do the same.
Try to increase the distance between children by playing games that involve fewer opportunities for touching, and reminding everyone to practice of proper hygiene habits.
Spend time outdoors. Outdoor activities are less risky than indoor ones because COVID-19 spreads more easily when people are close together in confined spaces. Daily time outdoors is important to children and adults alike. To apply social distancing, consider outdoor activities like walking, hiking, or bike riding.
Monitor symptoms if someone you’ve been near becomes ill. If the symptomatic person is not a confirmed case of COVID-19, there is no not need to quarantine, but you should monitor closely for symptoms. If a fever, cough, or shortness of breath develops, separate from others and call your healthcare provider.

If the symptomatic person is a confirmed COVID-19 case, anyone who had close contact with the person should quarantine for 14 days, monitor symptoms, and notify your healthcare provider if symptoms develop.


Talk with your child about COVID-19. As public conversations around COVID-19 increase, kids may worry about themselves, their family, and friends getting ill with COVID-19. Parents and other trusted adults can play an important role in helping children understand what they hear in an honest and accurate way while minimizing worry and fear. Some things to keep in mind include:

Remain calm and reassuring.
Make yourself available to listen and to talk. Be sure children know they can come to you when you have questions.
Avoid language that might blame others and lead to stigma. Remember that viruses can make anyone sick, regardless of a person’s race or ethnicity.
Consider reducing the amount of screen time focused on COVID-19.
Provide information that is truthful and appropriate for the age and developmental level for the child. The CDC has compiled “Facts about COVID-19 for discussions with children” that can be a helpful starting point.
Remind children about proper hygiene habits including washing their hands often.
Guidance for Parents when school is closed.









Cleaning and Disinfecting


Cleaning & Disinfecting Hard Surfaces
There is much to learn about COVID-19. Based on what is currently known, COVID-19 spreads from person-to-person most frequently among close contacts (within about 6 feet). This type of transmission occurs via respiratory droplets. Current evidence suggests that COVID-19 may remain viable for hours to days on surfaces made from a variety of materials.
Cleaning of visibly dirty surfaces followed by disinfection is a best practice measure for prevention of COVID-19 and other viral respiratory illnesses in households and community settings.

CDC Guidance for Cleaning & Sanitizing
Cleaning Products for COVID-19











Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/families/disease/covid-19/disease/





Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/families/disease/covid-19/public-health-orders/


Scraping from https://boco.org/MaskAmended0724


A PDF HERE


Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/bouldercounty-stay-at-home-order-032520/


A PDF HERE


Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/bouldercounty-sah-order-rescission-letter-032620/


A PDF HERE


Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/families/disease/covid-19/face-covering-order/





Boulder County Face Covering Order



En Español
On July 24, Boulder County Amended its face covering order, to align with the State of Colorado face covering order issued on July 17. In summary, in Boulder County:

All people ages 11 and older must wear a face covering when indoors in a public place, including their workplace. Parents/guardians are encouraged to help their child aged 3-10 to wear a face covering.
A face covering must be worn whenever you cannot maintain 6 feet of distance from others you do not live with, including outdoors.

Residents are encouraged to review the FAQs for the state face covering order, as well as the guidance for reasonable accommodations due to the presence of COVID-19.
Boulder County Face Covering Requirement
Each person within Boulder County, except as specifically exempted below, must wear a face covering in all public indoor spaces and outdoors when social distancing cannot be maintained of at least 6 feet from any non-household members. These requirements supplement and are in addition to any social distancing orders. View the full public health order. The order does not have an end date and will remain in place until it is rescinded.
Exceptions
A Face Covering is not required for:

Any child aged ten years or younger.

Parents and caregivers must supervise use of Face Coverings by children to avoid misuse.
Children under age three should not wear a Face Covering because of the risk of suffocation.


First responders if they need to respond to an immediate threat. This order does not pre-empt CDPHE Order 20-26 which requires first responders to wear Face Coverings.

Other Face Covering Orders

In situations where local municipalities or school districts also have face covering orders in place, the most protective order takes precedence.

City of Boulder
City of Lafayette
City of Louisville
Town of Superior
Town of Erie
Colorado Face Mask Order
Face Covering Poster: Requirements for the Public by city, town, county, state
Face Covering Poster: Requirements for the Public by city, town, county, state (Spanish)
Face Covering Poster: Requirements for Employees by city, town, county, state
Face Covering Poster: Requirements for Employees by city, town, county, state (Spanish)

Definition of “Face Covering”
“Face Covering,” means a covering made of cloth, fabric, or other soft or permeable material, without holes, that covers only the nose and mouth and surrounding areas of the lower face. Face Coverings may be factory- or handmade and improvised from ordinary household materials.
Definition of Residence
Residence is defined as the property where an individual resides with other members of their household.

Includes a motor vehicle when being used for personal use by an individual and his or her same household.
Does not include any common areas that may be used by multiple households.
Does not include any vehicle used for public transportation, paratransit vehicles, taxis, private car services, or ride-sharing vehicles when used for that purpose.

Face Covering Fit & Care

Face Coverings should fit snugly but comfortably against the side of the face, include multiple layers of fabric, allow for breathing without restriction, and be able to be laundered and machine-dried without damage or change to shape or be made of disposable material.
Face Coverings must cover the nose and mouth at all times whenever a person is within 6 feet of non-household members, and should remain in place until they can be removed safely.
Workers: If a worker’s Face Covering moves during work, it must be replaced with one that does not need to be frequently adjusted in order to reduce touching of the face.
Face Coverings should be replaced when they become dirty, wet, and/or difficult to breathe through.

Face Covering sewing patterns, fit and care information:

CDC do it yourself face coverings
Colorado Mask Project.com

Note: Any mask that incorporates a one-way valve (typically a raised plastic cylinder about the size of a quarter on the front or side of the mask) that is designed to facilitate easy exhaling is not a Face Covering under the Order and should not be used to comply. Valves of that type permit droplet release from the mask which can put others nearby at risk.
Efficacy
Most public health experts agree that there is enough information to say that face coverings will reduce the spread of large droplets, and that face masks are one important tool to use in conjunction with others. Proper donning and doffing of face coverings, appropriate laundering of face coverings, and continued vigilance in washing hands and not touching the face are important components to the effectiveness of face coverings. We must use every tool possible to halt the spread of the disease – and facial coverings where six feet of social distancing cannot be maintained, along with testing, and contact tracing of people that have been exposed are important strategies.
Authority & Penalties
Boulder County Public Health will use an education first approach to enforcement. However, authority from this order comes from Colorado Revised Statutes (“C.R.S.”) §§ 25-1-506, 508, 509, and 516. Penalties are outlined in Colorado Revised Statues C.R.S. §§ 25-1-114 and 25-1-516, including a fine of up to $5000 and imprisonment in the county jail for up to one year.
Concerns about others not wearing face coverings in public can:

Call the Public Health Call Center at 720-776-0822 or
Complete the online concern form

Boulder County Public Health staff will determine if there has been a violation of a public health order and will follow up with the business or work with law enforcement, if needed.
Businesses may use the sample face covering script to assist with conversations with patrons regarding face coverings.
Protection
Anyone who feels they are being discriminated against or retaliated against by their employer can contact the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment.
Obtaining a Mask
Where to get Face Coverings

The Colorado Mask Project – Free face coverings locally
The Hidden Treasure 2 -Longmont, CO – Free face coverings locally
Extreme Pro Apparel -Broomfield, CO – Retail sales face coverings
Alexanders Aesthetics II – Louisville, CO
National retailers online – Retail sales face coverings:

www.self.com/gallery/where-to-find-cloth-face-masks
www.insider.com/where-to-buy-fashion-face-masks-online#citizens-of-humanity-4
www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2020/04/17/where-buy-homemade-face-masks-9-retailers-selling-fabric-face-coverings-worth-buying/5155800002/
www.etsy.com/market/face_mask



How to make face coverings

How to make an easy, no sew face covering with handkerchief/fabric and 2 rubber bands
DYI how to guides: Fabric Selection, materials, designs and patterns:

How to make DIY masks


Hand sewn mask instructions
National Jewish – Making Masks for Healthcare Workers
Colorado Mask Project




En Español
On July 24, Boulder County Amended its face covering order, to align with the State of Colorado face covering order issued on July 17. In summary, in Boulder County:

All people ages 11 and older must wear a face covering when indoors in a public place, including their workplace. Parents/guardians are encouraged to help their child aged 3-10 to wear a face covering.
A face covering must be worn whenever you cannot maintain 6 feet of distance from others you do not live with, including outdoors.

Residents are encouraged to review the FAQs for the state face covering order, as well as the guidance for reasonable accommodations due to the presence of COVID-19.
Boulder County Face Covering Requirement
Each person within Boulder County, except as specifically exempted below, must wear a face covering in all public indoor spaces and outdoors when social distancing cannot be maintained of at least 6 feet from any non-household members. These requirements supplement and are in addition to any social distancing orders. View the full public health order. The order does not have an end date and will remain in place until it is rescinded.
Exceptions
A Face Covering is not required for:

Any child aged ten years or younger.

Parents and caregivers must supervise use of Face Coverings by children to avoid misuse.
Children under age three should not wear a Face Covering because of the risk of suffocation.


First responders if they need to respond to an immediate threat. This order does not pre-empt CDPHE Order 20-26 which requires first responders to wear Face Coverings.

Other Face Covering Orders

In situations where local municipalities or school districts also have face covering orders in place, the most protective order takes precedence.

City of Boulder
City of Lafayette
City of Louisville
Town of Superior
Town of Erie
Colorado Face Mask Order
Face Covering Poster: Requirements for the Public by city, town, county, state
Face Covering Poster: Requirements for the Public by city, town, county, state (Spanish)
Face Covering Poster: Requirements for Employees by city, town, county, state
Face Covering Poster: Requirements for Employees by city, town, county, state (Spanish)

Definition of “Face Covering”
“Face Covering,” means a covering made of cloth, fabric, or other soft or permeable material, without holes, that covers only the nose and mouth and surrounding areas of the lower face. Face Coverings may be factory- or handmade and improvised from ordinary household materials.
Definition of Residence
Residence is defined as the property where an individual resides with other members of their household.

Includes a motor vehicle when being used for personal use by an individual and his or her same household.
Does not include any common areas that may be used by multiple households.
Does not include any vehicle used for public transportation, paratransit vehicles, taxis, private car services, or ride-sharing vehicles when used for that purpose.

Face Covering Fit & Care

Face Coverings should fit snugly but comfortably against the side of the face, include multiple layers of fabric, allow for breathing without restriction, and be able to be laundered and machine-dried without damage or change to shape or be made of disposable material.
Face Coverings must cover the nose and mouth at all times whenever a person is within 6 feet of non-household members, and should remain in place until they can be removed safely.
Workers: If a worker’s Face Covering moves during work, it must be replaced with one that does not need to be frequently adjusted in order to reduce touching of the face.
Face Coverings should be replaced when they become dirty, wet, and/or difficult to breathe through.

Face Covering sewing patterns, fit and care information:

CDC do it yourself face coverings
Colorado Mask Project.com

Note: Any mask that incorporates a one-way valve (typically a raised plastic cylinder about the size of a quarter on the front or side of the mask) that is designed to facilitate easy exhaling is not a Face Covering under the Order and should not be used to comply. Valves of that type permit droplet release from the mask which can put others nearby at risk.
Efficacy
Most public health experts agree that there is enough information to say that face coverings will reduce the spread of large droplets, and that face masks are one important tool to use in conjunction with others. Proper donning and doffing of face coverings, appropriate laundering of face coverings, and continued vigilance in washing hands and not touching the face are important components to the effectiveness of face coverings. We must use every tool possible to halt the spread of the disease – and facial coverings where six feet of social distancing cannot be maintained, along with testing, and contact tracing of people that have been exposed are important strategies.
Authority & Penalties
Boulder County Public Health will use an education first approach to enforcement. However, authority from this order comes from Colorado Revised Statutes (“C.R.S.”) §§ 25-1-506, 508, 509, and 516. Penalties are outlined in Colorado Revised Statues C.R.S. §§ 25-1-114 and 25-1-516, including a fine of up to $5000 and imprisonment in the county jail for up to one year.
Concerns about others not wearing face coverings in public can:

Call the Public Health Call Center at 720-776-0822 or
Complete the online concern form

Boulder County Public Health staff will determine if there has been a violation of a public health order and will follow up with the business or work with law enforcement, if needed.
Businesses may use the sample face covering script to assist with conversations with patrons regarding face coverings.
Protection
Anyone who feels they are being discriminated against or retaliated against by their employer can contact the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment.
Obtaining a Mask
Where to get Face Coverings

The Colorado Mask Project – Free face coverings locally
The Hidden Treasure 2 -Longmont, CO – Free face coverings locally
Extreme Pro Apparel -Broomfield, CO – Retail sales face coverings
Alexanders Aesthetics II – Louisville, CO
National retailers online – Retail sales face coverings:

www.self.com/gallery/where-to-find-cloth-face-masks
www.insider.com/where-to-buy-fashion-face-masks-online#citizens-of-humanity-4
www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2020/04/17/where-buy-homemade-face-masks-9-retailers-selling-fabric-face-coverings-worth-buying/5155800002/
www.etsy.com/market/face_mask



How to make face coverings

How to make an easy, no sew face covering with handkerchief/fabric and 2 rubber bands
DYI how to guides: Fabric Selection, materials, designs and patterns:

How to make DIY masks


Hand sewn mask instructions
National Jewish – Making Masks for Healthcare Workers
Colorado Mask Project


Related Links

Boulder County COVID-19 Homepage
Colorado Dept. of Public Health & Environment COVID-19 Info
Colorado Safer at Home Order
County Guidance for Protect Our Neighbors
County Guidance for Safer at Home
Illness & Recovery Data
Mental Health Blog
Resources for Those Affected by COVID-19
Testing





Contact Us

 





Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question









Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 









Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 


















 





Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question









Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 









Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 



















Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question




Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question




Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 




Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 




Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 




Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 








Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/families/disease/covid-19/state-safer-order/



Guidance for Colorado Safer-at-Home Order in Boulder County



En Español
Boulder County is currently under the statewide Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors Order. Visit the Safer at Home website for details about the requirements of the order. A summary of guidance for each business sector is also available for download.
Requirements for Residents

Stay home as much as possible, leaving only for a limited number of specific activities.
When going out, follow physical distancing requirements (6 feet of space between yourself and others) and wear a face covering.
Vulnerable people at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 should only leave home for medical care and essential activities.
People who have COVID-19 symptoms must isolate unless they have a negative test result. Self-isolating when you are ill is the best course of action until more testing is available.
Only essential travel in- or out-of-state is permitted.
Sick people must not go to work.

Colorado Guidance
Visit the Safer at Home website for details about the requirements of the Safer at Home order. A summary of guidance for each business sector is also available for download.
Guidance for Events & Recreation

Indoor Events — Receptions, concerts, indoor markets, theaters, & more
Outdoor Events — Outdoor receptions, fairs, concerts, rodeos, & others
Children’s day camps & youth sports camps — Day camps, including mobile & outdoor camps, must operate with restrictions and strong precautionary measures
Personal Recreation  — including pools, indoor gyms, organized sports, & more
Outdoor Recreation — for participants, outdoor guides, tours, & more
Places of Worship & Life-Rite Ceremonies — including weddings & funerals

Guidance by Business Sector
Additional details can be seen in the Seventh Amended Public Health Order: Safer at Home and In the Vast, Great Outdoors

Best Practices for All Businesses
Field Services and Real Estate For more information, see Appendix B of the Public Health Order
Grocery Store Guidance
Hospitality & Short-term Rentals
Limited Healthcare Settings For more information, see Appendix E of the Public Health Order.
Critical Manufacturing: Follow state guidance found within the Public Health Order for Critical Businesses. Critical Businesses must comply with social distancing requirements.
Non-critical Manufacturing For more information, see Appendix H of the Public Health Order.
Office-based Business For more information, see Appendix C of the Public Health Order
Personal Services For more information, see Appendix D of the Public Health Order
Personal Services Regulated by the Department of Regulatory Affairs
Restaurants & Food Services or more information, see Appendix I of the Public Health Order
Retail For more information, see Appendix A of the Public Health Order

Boulder County Guidance & Tools
Cleaning, PPE, & Illness

ADA Guidance about Employee Health Information
COVID-19 PPE Guidance & Resources
Wearing Masks and Cloth Facial Coverings
Cleaning and Quarantining Retail Products
Household, Workplace, and Vehicle Cleaning 
Symptom Screening

Child Care & Camps

Guidance for Children’s Day Camps & Youth Sports Camps
Guidance for Early Care & Education Program
Cleaning & Disinfecting
Talking with Children about COVID-19
Talking with Parents about COVID-19
Signs & Posters for Child Care Centers

Education

Metro Denver Partnership for Health School Guidance

Events

Special Event Guidance
Life Rites & Places of Worship
Graduation Ceremony Guidance
Colorado Department of Education Graduation Guidance 

Food Service

Restaurant Recovery Programs by Municipality within Boulder County
Curbside Delivery
Executive Order D 2020 011 — Allowing for Delivery and Takeout of Sealed Alcoholic Beverages
Colorado Liquor Enforcement Division Rules: On-premise Retailed Licensees and Breweries Able to Sell, Deliver or Provide Alcohol for Takeout

Personal Services

State Guidance for Personal Services – includes beauty services, body art, personal training, pet care, massage, & other
DORA guidance for Salons, Spas, and Sole Practitioners of Personal Services
Additional Guidance for Massage Therapists for Personal Services & Limited Healthcare Settings

Workplace

Best Practices for All Businesses
General Business Guidance for Safer-at-Home
COVID-19 Outbreak Guidance for Business
Sample Face Covering Script for Business
Updated 06/08— Social Distancing Space Calculator for Business (Excel file)
Business Webinars for Industry Groups 



Videos of Past Sessions





Rights & Responsibilities in the Workplace

Returning to Work Under Recent Public Health Orders
State Guidance to Employers/Businesses Regarding Employee Protections & Reasonable Accommodations Including Masks Due to COVID-19

Posters

Face Covering Requirements for the Public
Face Covering Requirements for the Public in Spanish
Face Covering Requirements for Employees
Face Covering Requirements for Employees in Spanish
Construction worksite safety
Construction worksite safety – Spanish
Restaurants
Restaurants – Spanish
General Best Practices
General Best Practices – Spanish
Mask Usage Sign for Businesses




En Español
Boulder County is currently under the statewide Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors Order. Visit the Safer at Home website for details about the requirements of the order. A summary of guidance for each business sector is also available for download.
Requirements for Residents

Stay home as much as possible, leaving only for a limited number of specific activities.
When going out, follow physical distancing requirements (6 feet of space between yourself and others) and wear a face covering.
Vulnerable people at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 should only leave home for medical care and essential activities.
People who have COVID-19 symptoms must isolate unless they have a negative test result. Self-isolating when you are ill is the best course of action until more testing is available.
Only essential travel in- or out-of-state is permitted.
Sick people must not go to work.

Colorado Guidance
Visit the Safer at Home website for details about the requirements of the Safer at Home order. A summary of guidance for each business sector is also available for download.
Guidance for Events & Recreation

Indoor Events — Receptions, concerts, indoor markets, theaters, & more
Outdoor Events — Outdoor receptions, fairs, concerts, rodeos, & others
Children’s day camps & youth sports camps — Day camps, including mobile & outdoor camps, must operate with restrictions and strong precautionary measures
Personal Recreation  — including pools, indoor gyms, organized sports, & more
Outdoor Recreation — for participants, outdoor guides, tours, & more
Places of Worship & Life-Rite Ceremonies — including weddings & funerals

Guidance by Business Sector
Additional details can be seen in the Seventh Amended Public Health Order: Safer at Home and In the Vast, Great Outdoors

Best Practices for All Businesses
Field Services and Real Estate For more information, see Appendix B of the Public Health Order
Grocery Store Guidance
Hospitality & Short-term Rentals
Limited Healthcare Settings For more information, see Appendix E of the Public Health Order.
Critical Manufacturing: Follow state guidance found within the Public Health Order for Critical Businesses. Critical Businesses must comply with social distancing requirements.
Non-critical Manufacturing For more information, see Appendix H of the Public Health Order.
Office-based Business For more information, see Appendix C of the Public Health Order
Personal Services For more information, see Appendix D of the Public Health Order
Personal Services Regulated by the Department of Regulatory Affairs
Restaurants & Food Services or more information, see Appendix I of the Public Health Order
Retail For more information, see Appendix A of the Public Health Order

Boulder County Guidance & Tools
Cleaning, PPE, & Illness

ADA Guidance about Employee Health Information
COVID-19 PPE Guidance & Resources
Wearing Masks and Cloth Facial Coverings
Cleaning and Quarantining Retail Products
Household, Workplace, and Vehicle Cleaning 
Symptom Screening

Child Care & Camps

Guidance for Children’s Day Camps & Youth Sports Camps
Guidance for Early Care & Education Program
Cleaning & Disinfecting
Talking with Children about COVID-19
Talking with Parents about COVID-19
Signs & Posters for Child Care Centers

Education

Metro Denver Partnership for Health School Guidance

Events

Special Event Guidance
Life Rites & Places of Worship
Graduation Ceremony Guidance
Colorado Department of Education Graduation Guidance 

Food Service

Restaurant Recovery Programs by Municipality within Boulder County
Curbside Delivery
Executive Order D 2020 011 — Allowing for Delivery and Takeout of Sealed Alcoholic Beverages
Colorado Liquor Enforcement Division Rules: On-premise Retailed Licensees and Breweries Able to Sell, Deliver or Provide Alcohol for Takeout

Personal Services

State Guidance for Personal Services – includes beauty services, body art, personal training, pet care, massage, & other
DORA guidance for Salons, Spas, and Sole Practitioners of Personal Services
Additional Guidance for Massage Therapists for Personal Services & Limited Healthcare Settings

Workplace

Best Practices for All Businesses
General Business Guidance for Safer-at-Home
COVID-19 Outbreak Guidance for Business
Sample Face Covering Script for Business
Updated 06/08— Social Distancing Space Calculator for Business (Excel file)
Business Webinars for Industry Groups 



Videos of Past Sessions





Rights & Responsibilities in the Workplace

Returning to Work Under Recent Public Health Orders
State Guidance to Employers/Businesses Regarding Employee Protections & Reasonable Accommodations Including Masks Due to COVID-19

Posters

Face Covering Requirements for the Public
Face Covering Requirements for the Public in Spanish
Face Covering Requirements for Employees
Face Covering Requirements for Employees in Spanish
Construction worksite safety
Construction worksite safety – Spanish
Restaurants
Restaurants – Spanish
General Best Practices
General Best Practices – Spanish
Mask Usage Sign for Businesses


Related Links

Boulder County COVID-19 Homepage
Boulder County Face Mask Order
Colorado Dept. of Public Health & Environment COVID-19 Info
County Guidance for Protect Our Neighbors
County Guidance for Safer at Home
Illness & Recovery Data
Mental Health Blog
Resources for Those Affected by COVID-19
Testing



Contact Us

 





Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question









Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 









Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 


















 





Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question









Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 









Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 



















Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question




Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question




Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 




Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 




Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 




Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 








Scraping from https://www.bouldercounty.org/families/disease/covid-19/concerns-questions/





COVID-19 Report a Concern or Ask a Question



En Español
Concerns & Questions
We are here to help keep our community healthy and safe. Please contact us in the following ways, depending on your needs.
Questions about COVID-19 Illness (Symptoms, Transmission, etc.)

CO-Help call center 303-389-1687 or 877-462-2911
CO-Help email COHELP@RMPDC.org

Other COVID-related questions
If you have other questions not listed above, such as about possible exposures, travel, workplace environments, deliveries, social distancing, real estate open houses, nursing homes etc.

Call the Boulder County call center at 720-776-0822, Monday–Friday, 9 a.m.–2 p.m.
After hours, please complete the online Ask a Question form (in English or Spanish)

Guidance for Businesses

Send an email to COVIDbiz@bouldercounty.org for questions about Public Health Orders

Concerns about a BUSINESS not following Public Health Orders

Complete the Concern Form (in English or Spanish)

Concerns about GATHERINGS OF PEOPLE not following Public Health Orders, including:


Large parties at private residences, commercial buildings, or public parks
Trailhead parking complaints or reports of large crowds

Contact your local non-emergency dispatch ONLY if a gathering is currently IN PROGRESS:

Boulder: 303-441-3333
Longmont: 303-651-8501
On CU Campus: 303-492-6666
Unincorporated Boulder County, Lafayette, Louisville, Erie, Jamestown, Lyons, Nederland, Niwot, Superior, Ward: 303-441-4444




En Español
Concerns & Questions
We are here to help keep our community healthy and safe. Please contact us in the following ways, depending on your needs.
Questions about COVID-19 Illness (Symptoms, Transmission, etc.)

CO-Help call center 303-389-1687 or 877-462-2911
CO-Help email COHELP@RMPDC.org

Other COVID-related questions
If you have other questions not listed above, such as about possible exposures, travel, workplace environments, deliveries, social distancing, real estate open houses, nursing homes etc.

Call the Boulder County call center at 720-776-0822, Monday–Friday, 9 a.m.–2 p.m.
After hours, please complete the online Ask a Question form (in English or Spanish)

Guidance for Businesses

Send an email to COVIDbiz@bouldercounty.org for questions about Public Health Orders

Concerns about a BUSINESS not following Public Health Orders

Complete the Concern Form (in English or Spanish)

Concerns about GATHERINGS OF PEOPLE not following Public Health Orders, including:


Large parties at private residences, commercial buildings, or public parks
Trailhead parking complaints or reports of large crowds

Contact your local non-emergency dispatch ONLY if a gathering is currently IN PROGRESS:

Boulder: 303-441-3333
Longmont: 303-651-8501
On CU Campus: 303-492-6666
Unincorporated Boulder County, Lafayette, Louisville, Erie, Jamestown, Lyons, Nederland, Niwot, Superior, Ward: 303-441-4444


Related Links

Boulder County COVID-19 Homepage
Boulder County Face Mask Order
Colorado Dept. of Public Health & Environment COVID-19 Info
Colorado Safer at Home Order
County Guidance for Protect Our Neighbors
County Guidance for Safer at Home
Illness & Recovery Data
Mental Health Blog
Resources for Those Affected by COVID-19
Testing





Contact Us

 





Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question









Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 









Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 


















 





Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question









Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 









Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 



















Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question




Boulder County Public Health 
Main:  303-441-1100
Submit a Question




Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 




Location
Boulder
3450 Broadway
 Map & Directions
Hours: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. M-F 




Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 




Website
 www.BoulderCountyHealth.org 








