


Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/city-departments/license-commission/#brocktonrestaurantreopening





License Commission
The License Commission issues all licenses to sell alcoholic beverages, common victualer, innholder, used car dealer (Class I, II, III), lodging house, automatic amusement devices, and entertainment (alcoholic beverage licenses and common victualers).
The license commission consists of five members and two alternates.  These individuals are residents of the city who are appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council.  The commission operates in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission, and applicable city ordinance and license commission regulations.
Brockton Restaurant Reopening
Pursuant to the Governor's June 2, 2020 Order No. 35, the City of Brockton is accepting applications for the temporary extension of restaurants to provide for outdoor table service.  Once reviewed and approved by the City’s Outdoor Dining Advisory Board, which is made up of representatives from the City’s planning, public safety, and inspectional departments, restaurants will be able to offer expanded outdoor dining options under Phase II of the Commonwealth's reopening plan.  This expedited application process will significantly decrease the timeframe for extending existing restaurants into outdoor spaces.
To apply, establishments should email a completed Application for Temporary Extension of Premises for Outdoor Table Service and required attachments to outdoordining@cobma.us. 
Please be advised that all licensees must comply with the City's Outdoor Dining Rules"
Outdoor Dining Rules
Restaurants wishing to utilize public ways for outdoor table service must also complete the Supplemental Application for Temporary Outdoor Table Service on a Public Way.
Completed applications can also be submitted via U.S. mail to:
Outdoor Dining Advisory Board
City of Brockton Law Department
45 School Street- City Hall Brockton, MA 02301
As provided in the Application, the following documents must be submitted for applications to be deemed complete:

Completed Application for Temporary Extension of Premises for Outdoor Table Service.
Proof of ownership, lease, license rights or permission to utilize the area proposed for Outdoor Table Service.
A completed written COVID-19 Control Plan (State of MA mandatory self-certification form).
A detailed floor plan drawn to scale depicting the proposed area for outdoor table service.  We recommend that restaurants also attach photos, drawings, and google satellite images depicting the proposed plan.
Proof of Insurance: Workers Compensation OR an affidavit that the establishment has no employees.
Proof of Insurance: Liquor Liability – including the extended premises areas (if serving alcohol).
Sidewalk/Street dining only: Complete Supplemental Application for Temporary Outdoor Table Service on a Public Way.

Thank you in advance for your cooperation as we navigate through this new process.  Any questions can be directed to outdoordining@cobma.us

 


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/covid19/





Playgrounds
Effective today (june 25, 2020), all city playgrounds in Brockton are open per order of Mayor Robert F. Sullivan. Residents are asked to follow the guidelines posted about safety and social distancing. City playgrounds were previously closed in March due to COVID-19.
Reopening Brockton Restaurants
License Commission Restaurant Reopening
COVID-19 Testing
Testing Information
The Massachusetts Department of Public Health is asking for your assistance with the Commonwealth's efforts to provide Massachusetts residents with critical information about the statewide COVID-19 contact tracing program.
We are requesting that test centers display signage and distribute handouts about contact tracing activities conducted as part of the Commonwelth's efforts to reduce the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic in Massachusetts. Every person testing positive for COVID-19 will receive a follow-up call from the Community Tracing Collaborative (CTC) or your local Board of Health as a matter of routine. It is critical that they understand the importance of this call. By providing information in advance as residents are going through the testing process, you ensure that they know what to expect if they get a call from the CTC or their local Board of Health.
Signage should be displayed in a prominent location, readily visible by residents arriving for testing. Residents should also receive one of three information handouts depending on their situation: one is for residents who do not receive rapid test results on site, one for those with a positive rapid test result, and one for those with a negative test result.
We request that testing centers print the materials for display and distribution. If you require assistance with obtaining printed copies, please contact Ian Cutler with the CTC (icutler@covid19.pih.org).
A Message from Mayor Robert F. Sullivan 
As an extension to my March 16, 2020 Emergency Declaration and in accordance with new guidance from Governor Baker and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH), the City is taking the following measures currently. These measures are being taken to balance the ability to continue to provide important services and to protect the health and safety of the residents of Brockton. These measures can be extended, shortened, or changed as the City receives additional guidance from the state and federal government.
CURFEW
As of today, June 8, 2020, I have issued an executive order rescinding the City’s public health curfew as a result of Governor Baker’s executive order and a sustained trend of improvement in public health data.
Rescinding Curfew Order
MASK USE
I am always advising masks to be worn outside of homes and individual apartments where social distancing is not possible, including inside essential businesses such as grocery stores and pharmacies. Activities that do not allow social distancing, such as contact sports, should be avoided.
As of the close of business on Friday, April 3, services, and closures are as follows:
CITY HALL BUILDINGS/OFFICES
All Brockton City Buildings will be closed to the public until further notice. This includes City Hall, the Council on Aging/Senior Center, the DPW Building, and all branches of the Public Library. Access will be limited to staff only. For essential City business, Residents can call the Mayor’s Office at 508-580-7123 to set up an appointment to come into City Hall or any other city building.
CITY BILLS
Please consider paying any bills due to the City through the U.S. Mail or using the City’s bill pay webpage https://brockton.ma.us/online-services/pay-a-bill. Additionally, residents can utilize the drop box located outside of City Hall for payment of bills. Any envelope sized documents directed to City Hall departments may be left in the drop box. Staff will be available by phone and email in all departments during regular business hours to provide information and answer questions.
There will be no convenience fees for payments made online through the City’s website.
Dog license deadlines have been extended to June 30, 2020.
Water bills will now be due July 5th.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS
All future events and meetings in City buildings and properties will be postponed until further notice. The Governor’s Executive Order suspended portions of the Open Meeting Law to allow for remote participation for boards and committees. The City is actively working to provide boards, committees and residents with remote capability that allows for participation at home. We will provide information on how to access future meetings when it becomes available.
PUBLIC SAFETY
Police and Fire emergency response will continue to operate as usual. However, administrative services have been amended as follows:
- Fire Stations are closed to the public. Please call 508-588-0585.
- The Police Station will remain open. However, we ask that if you need to visit the police station you call first at 508-941-0200.
In the event of an emergency, please call 9-1-1.
SCHOOLS
All Brockton Public Schools will be closed for the remaining academic year. School Buildings and playgrounds are closed to the public. Please visit https://www.bpsma.org/ for additional information.


