Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19.aspx


Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                Symptoms, testing and care                        
        









                            Symptoms, testing and care
                        





How do you recognize COVID-19 symptoms, where to get tested, and what to do if you or a loved one becomes ill? This page offers information on how to care for yourself and others. For testing and medical advice, connect with your healthcare provider or a nurse consulting line.










If you do not have a healthcare provider, call the King County COVID-19 call center between 8 AM – 7 PM PST at 206-477-3977. 

If you or someone you are caring for is experiencing a medical emergency 9-1-1. 

You can also call the King County 24-Hour Crisis Line at 1-866-427-4747 for professional mental health services and support.


Seattle and King County is now recommending that anyone who has COVID-19 symptoms or close contact with someone who has COVID-19 be tested right away. Testing as soon as possible after symptoms appear is important to prevent COVID-19 from spreading to family, friends, and the community. Learn more about COVID-19 testing in King County.

Guidance documents









                                Signs and symptoms
                                





People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. People with these symptoms may have COVID-19: fever or chills, cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea. This list is not all possible symptoms. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you.


Basic FAQ on Coronavirus








                                What to do if you were exposed or potentially exposed
                                





If you think you have been exposed to someone with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19, follow the steps below to monitor your health and avoid spreading the disease to others if you get sick. 

What to do if you were potentially exposed to someone with confirmed COVID-19, Washington State Dept. of Health








                                What to do if you or a loved one are sick
                                





If you are ill with COVID-like symptoms, stay home. If you are unsure of how to care for yourself or are concerned about your condition, call your health care provider for advice. If you feel you need to visit your doctor, call them first. Keep yourself separated from other people and animals in your home. Cover your coughs and sneezes and wash your hands often.

How to care for yourself or others with COVID-19


For parents and guardians: what to do when you or your child gets COVID-19


10 things you can do to manage your COVID-19 symptoms at home


What to do if you have confirmed or suspected coronavirus disease


What to do if you have symptoms of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and have not been around anyone who has been diagnosed with COVID-19


COVID 19 screening tool and guidance for steps to take if you are sick with COVID-19 or think you may be infected with coronavirus.








                                Isolation and quarantine
                                





On March 28, Public Health's Health Officer, Dr. Jeff Duchin, issued a Quarantine Directive and Isolation Order to protect the health of our community and prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Isolation and quarantine is a proven public health practice for reducing the spread of disease.

Quarantine is for people who are not currently showing symptoms but are at increased risk for having been exposed to an infectious disease. Quarantine is for people who could become sick and spread the infection to others.


Isolation is used for people who are currently ill and able to spread the disease and who need to stay away from others in order to avoid infecting them.

Isolation/Quarantine and Assessment/Recovery Facilities
Isolation and quarantine sites are available to provide isolation and quarantine assistance to help residents who are not able to isolate and recovery in their own home. Examples of people who may need this assistance include people who cannot safely isolate from a family member who is elderly or medically fragile, or people experiencing homelessness. Individuals can only be placed into the King County sites after a health professional with Public Health has determined that they need isolation or quarantine.

Need support to isolate or quarantine? King County is here to help.
 Download a flyer to learn more about who qualifies and what is offered.







                                Related links
                                






Information on caring for someone at home, CDC










When can I be around others again?



Anti-stigma resources and downloadable posters






Contact/Where to get more information from King County



Medical questions related to COVID-19?
Contact the call center between 8 AM to 7 PM PST at 206-477-3977


Non-medical questions about COVID-19 including compliance and business related issues?
Contact the King County COVID-19 Business and Community Information Line (Monday – Friday) 8:30 AM – 4:30 PM at 206-296-1608


General questions about COVID-19 in Washington State
Contact the Washington State Novel Coronavirus Call center at 800-525-0127










 Visit the Public Health Insider blog for more articles on COVID-19.







Last Updated May 17, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/safe-start.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                Safe Start King County                        
        









                            Safe Start King County
                        

                                King County is now in Phase 2
                            





PLEASE NOTE: The status of activities listed on this page are subject to change at any time. If you've visited this page before, be sure to press Refresh or Reload on your web browser menu to ensure you're viewing the latest version of this page.

Safe Start is also available in
Amharic, Arabic, Chinese, Korean, Russian, Somali, Spanish and Vietnamese

Working together, our community has slowed the spread of COVID-19. Now, King County is working to gradually and carefully reopen the local economy and other aspects of daily living.
King County has entered the Phase 2 of Washington's Safe Start plan. Limited social gatherings may be held with five or fewer people outside your household. Restaurants, retailers and other businesses can once again serve customers. Most workplaces will be required to operate at reduced capacity and hours, and all will be required to follow state guidelines designed to ensure the health and safety of employees and clientele. These call for social distancing, regular hand washing and, with few exceptions, wearing cloth masks. Continuing to take these precautions is crucial to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and allow us to resume normal economic activity.
Each Washington County is moving through the four-phased "Safe Start" process at its own pace, depending on how much success it has had in slowing the virus. 
Counties must remain in each stage of Safe Start for at least three weeks, until health authorities can measure their progress towards eliminating the virus.
General reopening requirements









                                1. Educate workers
                                





Post COVID-19 policies in a language your employees can understand. Inform them about the symptoms and risk factors associated with the virus; the importance of frequent and thorough handwashing and social distancing; and the need to stay home when sick. King County has educational materials in many languages to help employers fulfill this requirement.
This poster explains basic information for employees:

Reopening business poster for staff: Workplace requirements during COVID-19







                                2. Maintain six feet of separation
                                





Maintain at least six feet of separation between employees and clientele at all times, including between tables at restaurants, customers waiting in line, and people using elevators. Workplaces may need to print posters encouraging this behavior, such as only allowing 1-2 people per elevator depending on the size of the cab, or place tape or markers on the floor six feet apart. 
When strict physical distancing is not feasible for a specific task, other measures are required, such as installing barriers, reducing staff or staggering worker hours.







                                3. Provide personal protection equipment (PPE)
                                





Provide cloth face coverings and require employees to wear them unless they are working alone or have a condition that makes wearing a mask dangerous. Workers can wear their own face coverings, provided they meet minimum requirements.  
Provide additional personal protective equipment as needed. In some cases, a plastic face shield might be necessary in addition to a mask.
Provide cloth masks and require employees to wear them unless they are working alone or have a condition that makes wearing a mask dangerous. 
More information about face coverings and King County's Face Covering Directive: kingcounty.gov/masks







                                4. Ensure handwashing
                                





Require frequent handwashing and provide the necessary supplies.
Download handwashing posters in multiple languages: www.kingcounty.gov/stopgerms 
Provide disposable gloves where appropriate to prevent virus transmission on shared tools and other equipment. 







                                5. Clean and sanitize
                                





Regularly clean and sanitize your workplace, especially frequently touched surfaces.

Guidance for cleaning and disinfecting, CDC
Rodent prevention and control for reopening buildings during COVID-19








                                6. Screen employees for illness
                                





Check to see if employees have any signs or symptoms of COVID-19 at the start of their shift. Sick employees must stay home or immediately go home if they feel or appear sick. If an employee was at work while showing symptoms, restrict any areas where that person worked until the area can be cleaned and sanitized. Follow cleaning directions from the CDC. 







                                7. Post signs to wear face coverings
                                





Effective July 7, the Governor's statewide order requiring face coverings to be worn in public directs businesses workplaces to require and enforce the use of face coverings by all customers or clients. More information about enforcing this face covering order is available from the State Department of Health.
See available posters at the bottom of this page for sign options.








More details about these requirements
The Washington State Department of Labor and Industries has posted complete Phase 1 and 2 Workplace Safety and Health Requirements and a helpful summary of guidance. You can also find more information for specific sectors on Gov. Jay Inslee's website.
All employers must protect the rights of their workers:
It is against the law for any employer to fire or retaliate against a worker for reporting concerns about health and safety. In addition, Governor Inslee has ordered that employees in high-risk groups for COVID-19 must be granted leave if they can't report to work for health reasons.

Find out more about worker's rights
Viruses don't discriminate. Keep stigma out of the workplace

Reporting COVID-19 cases in your business
At this time, most employers are not required to report individual COVID-19 cases to Public Health - Seattle & King County. 
Employers who operate in healthcare and social service settings (e.g., senior living communities, homeless shelters, child care programs) should report cases to Public Health, while maintaining the confidentiality of anyone who is sick.
Other employers (non healthcare or social services employers) are encouraged to report cases to Public Health if they believe the virus is spreading through their workforce.
More information about what to do if an employee has COVID, and how to report.

Requirements by business type:







Activity area
Phase 2 Permitted Activities and Limitations




Card rooms
Activities allowed: All card rooms or similar activities. 
Limitations: All card rooms are subject to Phase 2 guidance which generally restricts the card room designated area to the lesser of 25% capacity or 200 individuals. The restaurants or taverns area of the facility is required to follow the Phase 2 guidance, which restricts capacity to 50% and prohibits bar service. Limitations on capacity does not include staff.

Phase 2 requirements for card rooms
Phase 2 requirements for restaurant/tavern reopening



Construction
Activities allowed: All construction, including new work and where social distancing may not be maintained. 
Limitations: All construction activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance.

Phase 2 requirements for construction job site requirements



Domestic services
Activities allowed: Any worker (hourly, salaried, independent contractor, full-time, part-time, or temporary) who is paid by one or more employer and provides domestic services to an individual or household in/about a private home as a nanny, house cleaner, cook, private chef, or household manager. 
Limitations: All domestic services are subject to Phase 2 guidance.

Phase 2 requirements for the domestic services industry



Drive-in theaters
Activities allowed: All drive-in theaters. 
Limitations: All drive-in theaters are subject to Phase 2 guidance.

Phase 2 requirements for drive-in theaters



Fitness
Activities allowed: Staffed indoor fitness studios and facilities, including but not limited to gymnastics, weight and resistance training, martial arts, yoga, and similar instructor-led fitness services, as well as staffed indoor tennis facilities.
Limitations: All fitness activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance which generally limits to groups of five participants or less.

Phase 2 requirements for fitness and training



Higher Education
Activities allowed: All non-lecture based higher education and workforce training, including where social distancing may not be maintained. 
Limitations: All higher education activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance.

Phase 2 requirements for higher education and workforce training



In-store retail
Limitations: All retail activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance, including but not limited to gondolas, zoos and aquariums, guided fishing, and all other similar activities, which restricts.

Phase 2 requirements for in-store retail operations



Library services
Activities allowed: All public libraries, public library systems, institutional and governmental libraries, and libraries at institutions of higher education. 
Limitations: All library activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance which limits services to mail or curbside pick-up and libraries remain otherwise closed to the public. 

Phase 2 requirements for curbside library services



Manufacturing operations
Limitations: All manufacturing activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance.

Phase 2 requirements for manufacturing facilities



Outdoor recreation
Activities allowed: Staffed outdoor tennis facilities; guided ATV, paddle sports, and horseback riding; go-cart tracks, ORV/motocross facilities, and participant only motorsports; 
Limitations: All outdoor recreation activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance and are generally limited to groups of five participants or less, in some instances up to 12 individuals or three households are permitted.

Phase 2 requirements for outdoor recreation



Personal services
Activities allowed: All personal services including Cosmetologists, Hairstylists, Barbers, Estheticians, Master Estheticians, Manicurists, Nail Salon Workers, Electrologists, Permanent Makeup Artists, Tattoo Artists, Cosmetology Schools and Esthetics Schools. 
Limitations: All personal services are subject to Phase 2 guidance which restricts customer occupancy to 50% with the exception of one to one services in an enclosed room.

Phase 2 requirements for personal services



Pet grooming
Activities allowed: All pet grooming services including any location provided by an individual, or at a retail, veterinary, or other facility. 
Limitations: All pet grooming services are subject to Phase 2 guidance which restricts client occupancy to 50%.

Phase 2 requirements for pet grooming industry



Professional photography
Limitations: All professional photography services are subject to Phase 2 guidance which restricts services to appointment only and for one client (and family member, if client is a minor) at any given time. Group sessions are not allowed unless the group consists of immediate family only. 

Phase 2 requirements for professional photography



Professional services
Activities allowed: Accountants, architects, attorneys, engineers, financial advisors, information technologists, insurance agents, tax preparers, and other office-based occupations that are typically serving a client base. 
Limitations: All professional services are subject to Phase 2 guidance which restricts guest occupancy to 50% of a building's occupancy with the exception of one to one service in a fully enclosed room.

Phase 2 requirements for professional services



Real estate (residential and commercial)
Activities allowed: All real estate brokers, firms, independent contractors and industry partners. 
Limitations: All real estate activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance which generally restricts out of office activities to appointment only and with no more than three people; office activities require reservations for in-person customer services and guest occupancy is limited to 50% of a building's occupancy.

Phase 2 requirements for real estate



Religious and faith organizations
Activities allowed: All religious and faith-based organizations may operate services including worship services; religious study classes; religious ceremonies; religious holiday celebrations, weddings, and funerals.
Limitations: All religious and faith based activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance which generally restricts indoor services to the lesser of 25% capacity or 200 individuals as long as 6 feet of distance is kept between people from different households. In-home services/counseling is restricted to no more than five individuals. Limitations on capacity does not include an organization's staff, but does include volunteers.

Phase 2 requirements for religious and faith-based organizations



Restaurants and taverns
Limitations: All restaurant and tavern operations are subject to Phase 2 guidance which prohibits any bar seating and restricts indoor customer occupancy to 50% of a building's occupancy or lower as determined by the fire code. Outdoor dining is allowed at 50% of capacity and does not count toward the building occupancy limit; additional outdoor seating will be allowed provided it follows Public Health – Seattle & King County's best practices and a restaurant secures any municipal permit that may be required.

Phase 2 requirements for restaurants and taverns



Social and recreational gatherings
Limitations: Individuals may gather with five or fewer people from outside their household per week.  


Sporting activities
Activities allowed: Golf; professional sporting activities indoor and outdoor; outdoor youth team sports and outdoor adult recreational team sports, excluding school-connected or administered team sports and junior hockey.
Limitations: All sporting activities are subject to Phase 2 guidance (golf and other sporting activities). Non-professional sporting activities are generally limited to groups of five participants or less; for team sports that can mean limiting to groups of five in separate parts of the field if separated by a buffer zone. Professional sporting activities may generally operate, including up to 50 people for back office operations, for full team practices and spectator-less games and competitions.

Phase 2 requirements for golf

Phase 2 requirements for sporting activities








Answers to questions about the gradual re-opening in King County









                                1. Who will enforce the rules?
                                





Washington businesses that violate Gov. Inslee's order may be cited and fined for unsafe workplace conditions. The Washington state Department of Labor & Industries will enforce the rules. You can report workplace safety and health complaints to the State Department of Labor and Industries Call Center: 1-800-423-7233.







                                2. Who can I contact if I have questions about how the Governor's "Safe Start" Phases apply to my business?
                                





Call the King County COVID-19 Community and Business Compliance line: 206-296-1608. Ask for an interpreter by saying the name of your language.







                                3. Can people travel to other counties that are in different phases?
                                





The Department of Health recommends that Washingtonians follow the phase guidance outlined in Governor Inslee's Safe Start plan. They do not recommend traveling to other counties to seek services that may not currently be available in your county of residence.
Even as counties move into different phases of reopening, it is important to continue practicing public health guidance to the best of your ability. Stay home, wash your hands often, avoid touching your face, frequently clean surfaces, maintain six feet of distance from others, and wear cloth face coverings in public spaces. 







                                4. The Phase 2 gatherings requirement states that we can “gather with no more than 5 people outside your household per week.” Can you explain more about what kinds of gatherings you can have, whether it has to be the same 5 people at each gathering, and any recommendations about how to keep it safe?
                                





This means that:

You can meet with the same five people during a week 
You can meet with a different five people on a different week 
These five people can be seen all at once or individually 
Gatherings can occur indoors or outdoors, but outdoors is preferred. If you cannot maintain six feet of distance while gathering, individuals must wear cloth face coverings.
People can gather for any reason, whether that is for outdoor recreation like camping or a backyard BBQ with neighbors. 








                                5. What should you do during Phase 2 if you are at risk for severe COVID-19 illness?
                                





Safe Start is aimed at gradually reopening the economy, allowing more businesses to open and people to return to regular activities. However, the risk for infection has increased. As more businesses reopen and people get back to work and other activities, there will be more opportunities for COVID-19 to spread, leading to an increase in cases.
People who are at higher risk for severe COVID-19 illness (such as people older than 60 or with other underlying health conditions), should continue to practice caution, even as other people and businesses return to more normal activities. Staying at home and away from others as much as possible is the safest thing to do.








Posters and other resources

Guidance for Businesses and Employers - CDC

Safe Start Plans and Guidance for Reopening – State of Washington

Posters for customers and staff for reopening businesses





Reopening business poster for customers: Prevent the spread of COVID-19



Amharic

Arabic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional

French

Khmer

Korean

Marshallese




Oromo

Russian

Somali

Spanish

Thai

Tigrinya

Ukrainian

Vietnamese






Reopening business poster for staff: Workplace requirements during COVID-19



Amharic

Arabic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional

French

Khmer

Korean

Marshallese




Oromo

Russian

Somali

Spanish

Thai

Tigrinya

Ukrainian

Vietnamese








Please protect yourself and
  coworkers from COVID-19



Some people may not be able to wear face coverings





 Link/share our site at www.kingcounty.gov/Safe-Start





Last Updated July 10, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/schools-childcare.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                For schools and child care                        
        









                            Schools and child care 
                        





Teachers, parents and caregivers have been resourceful, creative, and patient in supporting at-home learning. Child care and early learning centers have been critical in supporting workers on the front line of our COVID-19 response. We commend all their efforts! Please check this site for frequently updated guidance to keep children and young people safe in Child care settings and campus housing.

Currently all schools and higher education institutions in Washington State will be closed for in-person instruction through the end of this school year. Some school sites are operating "Grab and Go" student meal sites in King County.
Child care and early learning programs are open. They play a critical role in keeping emergency rooms operating, essential businesses functioning, and our children safe as some parents continue working. Our Child care providers are superheroes: From a parent in Public Health.
Report concerns about a case, cluster or outbreak in a schools and childcare setting.

Guidance documents









                                Child care and Early Learning Centers
                                





Prevent and prepare for COVID-19 in child care


Checklist for Child Care Administrators: Steps to Prevent COVID-19

Changes to Cleaning and Disinfecting During COVID-19

Bleach Labels for Spray Bottles (5.25-6.25% or 8.25-8.3%)
More resources on cleaning, sanitizing, and disinfecting




Child Care Food Handling Procedures During COVID-19

 
Respond to suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19 in child care

Please report to King County Coronavirus Call Center: 206-477-3977, identifying yourself as a child care program, if:
  
You have a single, mild case 
You are considering a brief 2-5 day closure or a longer 14-day closure 
You see a group of children or staff (i.e. a cluster) with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 infections in your childcare; OR 
Staff, children, or volunteers become severely sick with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 infections or undiagnosed respiratory illness (requiring hospitalization or causing death). 




Guidance for Child Care Administrators: What to do when you have a suspected/confirmed case of COVID-19 in your facility


Checklist for child care administrators: Steps to take when you have a suspected or confirmed COVID-19 case in your facility



Additional resources

COVID-19 fact sheet for families


Keep me home if...
   Infographic displaying illness symptoms to determine if children should stay home. 
   
Igu hay guriga hadii… (Somali)
Mantenme en casa si... (Spanish)
Giữ con ở nhà nếu... (Vietnamese)




Cloth face covering information


Guidance for Child Care Programs that Remain Open (CDC)


Interim Guidance for Administrators of US K-12 Schools and Child Care Programs (CDC)


Child Care Resources & Recommendations (Washington State DOH, updated 6-19-20)

Spanish: Cuidado infantil durante el brote de coronavirus
Somali: Daryeelka ilmaha intuu jiro Cudurka Coronavirus




Child Care Resources


Child Care Aware


If you have questions about COVID-19, please call the King County Coronavirus Call Center: 206-477-3977. Identify yourself as a child care provider and you will be connected to a nurse consultant from the Child Care Health Program.


Seattle & King County Child Care Health Program



Signs to print and post to help establishments communicate with their customers and staff the steps they are taking to minimize the risk of COVID-19.
 
Posters for  families and staff at childcare centers



Poster for families at childcare centers



Poster for childcare center staff









                                K-12 schools and higher education
                                





While schools are closed in King County, many districts  and higher education institutes are planning for summer learning/programs and  the fall semester. Below are local, state, and national resources to support  this planning process:
King County resources

Guidance for graduation and other school ceremonies during the COVID-19 pandemic
Infographic: When Can I Be Around Others Again?
Guidelines for Student Housing at Higher Education Institutions (HEI)
Grab-and-Go K-12 Student Meal Sites in King County

Washington state resources

Reopening Washington Schools 2020 District Planning Guide
COVID-19-related information on childcare, schools, colleges, and universities, Department of Health 
K-12 School - Fall 2020-2021 Guidance, Department of Health 
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Guidance & Resources, Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction
Coronavirus (COVID-19) Prevention: General Requirements and Prevention Ideas for Workplaces, Department of Labor and Industries

National resources
K-12 schools

Schools and Child Care Programs: Guidance to Plan, Prepare, and Respond, CDC

Flowcharts  to guide decision making for schools, youth programs and camps, and child care programs, CDC
FAQs  for Administrators, Teachers, and Parents, CDC
Checklist  for Teachers and Parents, CDC
Considerations  for Schools, CDC



Institutes of higher education

Colleges, Universities, and Higher Learning: Guidance to Plan, Prepare, and Respond, CDC
    
FAQs  for Administrators, CDC



Resources for employers

Flowcharts to guide decision making for workplaces, CDC
Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers, CDC
Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19, OSHA








                                Youth and summer camps
                                








Key takeaways for youth and summer camps



The types of camps and programs included in this guidance are allowed to operate during all phases of the Governor's Safe Start Plan. 
Group sizes should total no more than 22 people. (Camps may operate with multiple groups so long as physical distancing can be maintained.)
Use of cloth face coverings by staff and children (possible exemptions are noted)
Physical distancing should be observed during camp activities and drop off/pick up.
Health screenings should be conducted upon arrival.
Sports-related activities must follow the Governor's Guidelines for Sporting Activities and CDC Guidance for Youth Sports


Public Health guidance for youth and summer camps

Considerations for Youth and Summer Camps, CDC
Child Care, Youth Development, and Summer Day Camps During the COVID-19 Outbreak, WA State Dept. of Health
Best Starts Blog: Summer Camp Guidance, Public Health — Seattle & King County

Additional implementation support

Field Guide for Camps, American Camp Association








                                Related links
                                






Guidance for Administrators of US Childcare Program and K-12 Schools to Plan, Prepare, and Respond to Coronavirus Disease 2019, CDC
Resources for K-12 Schools and Childcare Programs, CDC
Child Care Resources & Recommendations, WA State Dept. of Health
Child Care Resources, Childcare.org
Child Care Aware of Washington, Childcare.org










Last Updated June 25, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/workplaces.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                For businesses                        
        









                            For businesses
                        





After closing their doors to help weather the onset of COVID-19, businesses are gradually welcoming back the customers who are the lifeblood of the Seattle and King County economies. Visit this page often for updated guidance on how to safely transition to the normal economic activity that both businesses and their customers desire.

To continue economic progress, it is crucial to maintain the basic health and safety precautions that have helped slow the spread of the virus: frequent cleaning and hand washing, social distancing, wearing facial coverings, and avoiding crowded places. Be sure to educate your employees about the symptoms of COVID-19 and how to prevent its spread. Encourage workers to stay home and get tested if they feel sick.
In accordance with the statewide requirement to wear face coverings, customers and employees must wear face coverings indoors or when not able to stay 6 feet away from others. More information about the face covering requirement.

For additional links and guidance about reopening, be sure to visit our "Safe Start" page.

Guidance documents









                                Reopening guidance for workplaces
                                





Reopening guidance and resources for workplaces, including essential businesses, are available on the Safe Start King County page.

 Additional health-related reopening resources are available in the menu of guidance documents on this page:

Restaurants and food services
Reopening a building that has been closed








                                Reopening a building that has been closed
                                






Guidance  for reopening buildings after prolonged shutdown or reduced operation, CDC


Guidance for rodent prevention and control for reopening buildings during COVID-19
Buildings or spaces that have been unoccupied for a period of time may be at risk of rodent infestations. Rats and mice are common pests in King County and the following are some tips to help you reopen your building safely. Even if you continued your pest control services during quarantine, you should still take extra precautions concerning rodents as you move back into your building.


Flush building water system, WA State Dept. of Health


Review further guidance on reopening after a building closure, American Industrial Hygiene Association








                                What to do if an employee has COVID-19 – and what not to do
                                





Learn guidelines for providing next steps to employees experiencing COVID-19 symptoms and when to report cases to Public Health - Seattle & King County.







                                Grocery stores
                                





Guidance for grocery stores to minimize the spread of COVID-19
Including posters to print and post for grocery shoppers and staff.

 Posters for shoppers and staff in grocery stores



Poster for grocery store shoppers



Poster for grocery store staff









                                Residential communities
                                






Information on COVID-19 for managers, staff and residents of apartment buildings, condominiums, and similar residential communities


In accordance with the statewide requirement, face coverings must be warn in indoor common areas (hallways, elevators, lobbies, etc.) or in outdoor common areas when not able to stay 6 feet away from others. More information about the face covering requirement.


Safer cleaning at home
  Follow these recommendations on safer cleaning methods and disinfecting to help prevent the spread of disease while avoiding health risks from chemicals in some cleaning products.


Posters for visitors and residents at residential communities



Poster for visitors at residential communities



Poster for residents









                                Restaurants and food services
                                






Recommendations to minimize the spread of COVID-19 in retail food establishments
Guidance for food distribution
What should I do if a food worker is diagnosed with COVID-19?


If you are a food business owner or a food worker and have questions related to your operation, please reach out to your Health Investigator or call 206-263-9566 to speak with office staff.

 
Posters for restaurant customers and staff to print and post



Poster for restaurant customers



Poster for restaurant staff









                                Veterinarians
                                





Note: The scientific name of this novel coronavirus is severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). In people, the disease caused by the virus is called Coronavirus Disease 2019, or COVID-19. In the context of animal health, the disease is referred to as SARS-CoV-2.
The virus that causes COVID-19 spreads mainly from person to person through respiratory droplets from coughing, sneezing, and talking. Currently, there is no evidence that pets play a significant role in spreading the virus that causes COVID-19. Further studies are needed to understand if and how different animals could be affected by the virus, and the role animals may play in the spread of COVID-19. 
Below is a summary of our guidance. For the full guidance document, please email Beth Lipton, Public Health Veterinarian, at Beth.Lipton@kingcounty.gov.

Pet owners
Pet owners should treat their pets as they would any other human  family member and practice social distancing with other people and animals  outside the household. Keep cats indoors and walk dogs on a leash, maintaining  at least 6 feet from other people and animals. 
If a pet owner is sick with COVID-19, the CDC recommends that they  restrict contact with pets and other animals, just as they would with other  people. If an owner must care for the pet while sick, they should wear a cloth  face covering and wash their hands before and after interacting with the pet.  In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, service animals are  permitted to remain with their handlers.
General considerations for veterinary facilities
Veterinary staff should follow public health guidance  for essential workers, including staying home when sick and implementing flexible sick  leave policies. Additional precautions should be implemented to protect staff  and visitors in the workplace. Ask everyone to wear a cloth face covering and  provide each staff member with their own workspace and equipment.  
Veterinary facilities  should postpone elective procedures, surgeries, and non-urgent veterinary  visits and should make a plan to support sick and injured pets through measures  such as telemedicine, curbside services, and online payment/billing. The AVMA  has a resource for Minimizing  COVID-19 Exposure.
Veterinary care for a pet living in a household where a person has suspected or confirmed COVID-19
Pet  owners who have COVID-19-like symptoms or is a suspected or confirmed case  should not visit the veterinary facility and instead ask a family member or  friend from outside the household to bring the animal to the veterinary  facility. If a pet owner is suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19 and must  bring their pet to the clinic, actions must be taken that maintain physical  distance and prevent the owner from having to enter the facility. Specific CDC recommendations for situations in which an ill pet owner must enter the facility or a  house call veterinarian is needed are available.
Pets  infected with SARS-CoV-2 and testing for SARS-CoV-2
The understanding of SARS-CoV-2 disease in animals is limited, though clinical signs of disease in mammals are expected to include: fever, coughing, difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, lethargy, sneezing, nasal/ocular discharge, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Routine testing of pets for SARS-CoV-2 is currently not recommended. Veterinarians are strongly encouraged to rule out other, more  common cause of illness before considering testing for SARS-CoV-2, especially  among pets without a COVID-19 exposure. If a pet does test positive, follow CDC  guidance for both home  and veterinary facility isolations recommendations.
Other resources

Interim  Infection Prevention and Control Guidance for Veterinary Clinics During the  COVID-19 Response, CDC
SARS-CoV-2  in Pets, AVMA
FAQ  on Animal Coronavirus Testing, USDA
COVID-19 resources, WSVMA
COVID-19  and Animals, CDC
If  you have animals, CDC








                                Related links
                                





Workplaces rights and responsibilities:

Washington paid sick leave
    Employees have rights, and employers have significant responsibilities under Washington's Paid Sick Leave law, which was passed by voters in 2016 as part of Initiative 1433. As of Jan. 1, 2018, employers in Washington state are required to provide paid sick leave to their employees.


Washington paid family leave
    Paid Family and Medical Leave is a benefit for Washington workers. It's here for you when a serious health condition prevents you from working or when you need time to care for a family member, bond with a new child or spend time with a family member preparing for military service overseas.


City of Seattle's Paid Sick and Safe Time
    The City of Seattle's Paid Sick and Safe Time ordinance requires employers operating in Seattle to provide all employees with paid leave to care for themselves or a family member with a physical or mental health condition, medical appointment, or a critical safe issue.


U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
    Pandemic Preparedness in the Workplace and the Americans with Disabilities Act.

Supplemental external links:

Resources for Businesses and Employers, CDC


COVID-19 Response, WA state

What's Open and Closed

Business & Workers















 Contact/Where to get more information from King County



For non-medical questions about COVID-19, including compliance and business related issues, contact King County COVID-19 Business and Community Information Line at 206-296-1608, Monday – Friday, 8:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.


If you are a food business owner or a food worker and have questions related to your operation, please reach out to your Health Investigator or call 206-263-9566 to speak with office staff.






Anti-stigma resources and downloadable posters












 Visit the Public Health Insider blog for more articles on COVID-19.







Last Updated June 28, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/community-faith-organizations.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                For community and faith-based organizations                        
        









                            For community and faith-based organizations
                        





Our community and faith-based organizations continue to serve King County residents most impacted in these difficult times. This page offers resources and tools for organizations, faith and cultural leaders to engage with the communities they serve, including people who are unsheltered, communities with limited English proficiency, people who are undocumented, LGBTQ and BIPOC communities, as well as frontline workers.
Guidance documents









                                Community and faith-based organizations
                                






COVID-19 information for religious and faith-based organizations


Face protection for housing and shelter staff working in close contact with people with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 infection


FAQ's about the statewide face covering requirement, including how CBOs and FBOs can apply for free face coverings.








                                Community presentation requests
                                





The Speaker's Bureau provides presentations with the latest information, resources, and guidance’s for COVID-19 to your community. We strive to provide culturally relevant presentations and provide answers that your community is looking for. Our goal is to ensure that all communities in King County have the knowledge they need to stay safe and healthy during this time. Learn more and complete an online request form.







                                Pandemic Community Advisory Group
                                





Public Health — Seattle & King County convened representatives from various community, business, and government sectors in King County who are working together to help slow the spread of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by accelerating the use of the recommended and required community mitigation strategies. 
Learn more about the Pandemic Community Advisory Group.







                                Equity & Social Justice COVID-19 resources
                                






Office of Equity and Social Justice


COVID-19 Community and Small Business Resource Guide
    The resource guide is a tool that was requested by community leaders. It includes the following information:
    
How to apply for unemployment

Housing resources

Information on utilities and internet

Cash assistance

Food assistance

Childcare resources

Resources for undocumented communities

Small business loans and disaster assistance

In-language resources














 Contact/Where to get more information from King County



For non-medical questions about COVID-19, including compliance and business related issues, contact King County COVID-19 Business and Community Information Line at 206-296-1608, Monday – Friday, 8:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.


If you are a food business owner or a food worker and have questions related to your operation, please reach out to your Health Investigator or call 206-263-9566 to speak with office staff.








Community presentation requests
It is crucial that we all stay informed on the latest information regarding COVID-19. The Speaker's Bureau provides presentations with the latest information, resources, and guidance's for COVID-19 to the community. 
Learn more about how we can work with you to provide your organization with a presentation about COVID-19 and any relevant topics that your community is looking for. 








Anti-stigma resources and downloadable posters
Viruses don't discriminate. Misinformation about coronavirus can create fear and hostility that hurts people and makes it harder to keep everyone healthy. We're stronger as a community when we stand together against discrimination. Take advantage of these resources to prevent, interrupt, and respond to stigma. The anti-stigma resources page includes the following: 

Anti-stigma social media kit

Poster: Viruses Don't Discriminate and Neither Should We

Poster: Coronavirus and Stigma












 Visit the Public Health Insider blog for more articles on COVID-19.







Last Updated April 27, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/providers.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                For healthcare and service providers                        
        









                            For healthcare and service providers
                        





Healthcare and service providers can use the following resources to prepare for and respond to cases of COVID-19 in their facility and protect the health of clients, patients, and staff. 

Healthcare providers should report by phone (206-296-4774) all COVID-19 cases in the following persons, including what role the infected person has if they live or work in a high risk setting:

All healthcare personnel (medical, nursing, AND any other facility employee, EMS)

Persons who live or work in long term care facilities, senior living centers, permanent supportive housing, or similar congregate settings (shelters, correctional facilities) who house persons at high risk of severe outcomes.

Employed in public safety occupation (e.g., law enforcement, fire fighter)

Deaths associated with COVID-19

If you have concerns of a case, cluster or outbreak in your facility, please report the case using this online form. (Examples include long-term care facilities, senior living communities, supportive or transitional housing, homeless shelters, healthcare settings.)

Report COVID cases using an online form


Guidance documents









                                Health advisories
                                






The Communicable Disease Epidemiology & Immunization Section emails timely Health Advisories to those who subscribe to our Info-X Listserv. The listserv is a free service for King County health care providers. To be added to the list, visit this page.


2020 health care advisories and news








                                General infection control
                                






Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Patients with Suspected or Confirmed Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Healthcare Settings, CDC
    Actions to consider as soon as you have a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19.


Guidance for solid waste and biomedical waste handling
  Guidance for health care facilities and solid waste handlers to differentiate waste streams that come into contact with COVID-19 patients in order to clearly identify which wastes are appropriate for the municipal waste streams and which wastes are identified as biomedical waste as defined in local, state, and federal regulations.








                                Personal protection equipment (PPE)
                                






Interim COVID-19 PPE and face covering guidance for behavioral health providers and clients
    This document provides personal protective equipment (PPE) and cloth face covering guidance specific for behavioral health clinicians and clients during the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The following recommendations are based on CDC guidance for healthcare settings (updated 4/13/20) and include information on the Local Health Officer Directive on face coverings.    


Guidance for PPE conservation and alternatives when PPE is unavailable
    During times of severe personal protective equipment (PPE) shortages, individual measures/alternatives combined with administrative and engineering controls should be considered to support maintenance of the healthcare system response to COVID-19.

    This guidance has been extracted from CDC's guidance on optimizing PPE supply and should not be used independently without reviewing the complete CDC guidance for context and recommendations.


Face protection for housing and shelter staff working in close contact with people with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 infection








                                Testing
                                





There are currently no restrictions on who can be tested for COVID-19 and commercial testing is becoming more available. Healthcare providers should test all patients with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 regardless of their age or health status and individuals who have been in close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19.

COVID-19 Testing Information for Healthcare Providers, Washington State Dept. of Health 
Evaluating and Testing Persons for Coronavirus Disease 2019, CDC








                                Long-term care facilities
                                





Long-term care facilities are at high risk for severe COVID-19 outbreaks due to their congregate nature and vulnerable population (e.g., older adults with multiple co-morbidities).

Public Health — Seattle & King County's Response
  Learn more about how we are responding to outbreaks in LTFC's through improved infection control, facilitating testing, and cohorting. 


Recommendations for long-term care facilities
    These resources are intended to help long-term care facilities take the appropriate steps to prepare for and respond to cases of COVID-19 in their facility, and thereby protect the health of residents and staff.








                                Homeless service providers
                                






Healthcare for the Homeless Network (HCHN) provides health care services to people experiencing homelessness in King County. 
Learn more about HCHN’s role in the COVID-19 response including guidance documents and resources for homeless service providers.


Sign up for COVID Homelessness Response email alerts and receive up-to-date information related to King County's COVID-19 response for people experiencing homelessness.








                                Staffing resources
                                






Emergency Volunteer Health Practitioners
The Washington State Department of Health is enrolling and activating emergency volunteer health practitioners for the COVID-19 response. 








                                COVID-19 abstracts by Public Health — Seattle & King County staff
                                





Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)

COVID-19 Outbreak Among Three Affiliated Homeless Service Sites — King County, Washington, 2020
  On April 1, 2020, a COVID-19 outbreak was detected at three affiliated homeless shelters. Testing for SARS-CoV-2 immediately offered to all residents and staff members identified additional unrecognized COVID-19 cases. Enhanced surveillance and repeat testing identified and confirmed COVID-19 in 43 persons at these sites.


Asymptomatic and Presymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 Infections in Residents of a Long-Term Care Skilled Nursing Facility — King County, Washington, March 2020
  Symptom-based screening of SNF residents might fail to identify all SARS-CoV-2 infections. Asymptomatic and presymptomatic SNF residents might contribute to SARS-CoV-2 transmission. Once a facility has confirmed a COVID-19 case, all residents should be cared for using CDC-recommended personal protective equipment (PPE), with considerations for extended use or reuse of PPE as needed.


COVID-19 in a Long-Term Care Facility — King County, Washington, February 27–March 9, 2020
  Long-term care facilities should take proactive steps to protect the health of residents and preserve the health care workforce by identifying and excluding potentially infected staff members, restricting visitation except in compassionate care situations, ensuring early recognition of potentially infected patients, and implementing appropriate infection control measures.

PubMed
See list of abstracts cowritten by Public Health - Seattle & King County staff. 









Isolation and Quarantine & Assessment and Recovery



Isolation and Quarantine & Assessment and Recovery, King County Dept. of Community and Human Services
One of the key Public Health interventions we are deploying to slow the spread of COVID-19 is the siting of Isolation/Quarantine, Assessment and Recovery, and Shelter De-Intensification facilities across the County. These facilities slow the spread of COVID-19 and minimize the strain on our local healthcare facilities to ensure the safety of the public at large.






 Contact/Where to get more information from King County



Medical questions related to COVID-19? 
Contact the call center between 8 AM to 7 PM PST at 206-477-3977.


Non-medical questions about COVID-19 including compliance and business related issues?
Contact the King County COVID-19 Business and Community Information Line (Monday – Friday) 8:30 AM – 4:30 PM at 206-296-1608.


General questions about COVID-19 in Washington state.
   Contact the Washington State Novel Coronavirus Call center at 800-525-0127.






Anti-stigma resources and downloadable posters















 Visit the Public Health Insider blog for more articles on COVID-19.







Last Updated June 25, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/support.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                Community support and well-being                        
        









                            Community support and well-being
                        





The people and communities in King County, in the midst of bearing so much, have also been lifting each other up. We’re sharing these guidance and resiliency resources to help lessen the community impacts of COVID-19. 
Below you’ll find everything from wellness resources and small business guides to opportunities to donate and volunteer.







This can be a challenging time for individuals and communities. Feeling different feelings including stress, worry, fear, and grief are all normal. Coping with stress will make you, the people you care about, and your community stronger. If you are interested in learning more or in need of immediate support, here are a few resources and organizations to consider.

Crisis Connections provides many resources and support for anxiety, loneliness, recovery, and more. Language interpretation in more than 155 languages is available. Call 866-427-4747 or text HOME to 741741 for support. 
SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline provides trained counselors and support for stress, anxiety and more. Support available 24/7, 365 days a year. Call 1-800-985-5990 or text TalkWithUS to 66746. Spanish-speakers can call the hotline and press "2" for bilingual support. Interpreters are available for 100 other languages. 
The Boys Town National Hotline is a free resource and counseling service that assists youth and parents 24/7, year round, nationwide. Spanish-speaking counselors and translation services for more than 100 languages also are available 24 hours a day. Call 1-800-448-3000, text VOICE to 20121, or email hotline@boystown.org to connect.
King County's Department of Community and Human Services provides publicly funded mental health and substance use services to low-income people in need. 
Additional resources and mental health resources can be found on Washington State Coronavirus resources website.


If you or someone you know needs assistance applying for unemployment, finding food assistance, childcare or other community support, here are a few resources to consider:









                                Equity & Social Justice COVID-19 resources
                                






Expanded medical coverage for undocumented Washington State residents


COVID-19 Community and Small Business Resource Guide
    The resource guide is a tool that was requested by community leaders. It includes the following information:
      
How to apply for unemployment

Housing resources

Information on utilities and internet

Cash assistance

Food assistance

Childcare resources

Resources for undocumented communities

Small business loans and disaster assistance

In-language resources




Office of Equity and Social Justice









                                Mental health resources
                                






The NAMI Helpline connect callers to the support and resources that they need.


The Taking Care of Your Behavioral Health guide from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration includes tips for taking care of your mental health during social distancing, isolation, or quarantine.


 This Coping with Stress guide from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention includes more information about recognizing and coping with stress, taking care of yourself and your community.


Download this Community Mental Health Resource Guide for more resources. Information available in English, Spanish, and Arabic. Additional languages coming soon.








                                Tips for older adults
                                





Newsletter: Stay Safe at Home — Tips for older adults

How to care for yourself and others if you get sick

Prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the household

Staying connected while at home

Staying active and healthy while at home

Living in a multigenerational household

More resources

Consult with your doctor on the phone if you are sick








                                Food assistance
                                






Emergency food access resources
  Information about food access programs and services to help support King County residents during this difficult time.


Map displaying locations of free public food resources in King County, updated weekly by Public Health - Seattle & King County and City of Seattle including "Grab and Go" student meal sites in King County.
  All children up to 18 years of age are eligible to receive a free packed breakfast/lunch meal at the sites listed. Children do not need to be enrolled in that school district to receive meals, but they do need to be present. Meals are "grab and go"—Students will not stay onsite to eat.








                                Domestic violence support
                                





King County is here to provide support and resources for survivors of domestic violence and their families. To get help, or support someone in need, review the resources below.

Learn more about recognizing domestic and  intimate partner abuse, safety planning and resources for survivors from the National Domestic  Hotline.


Get help for domestic violence
You can to find out about legal rights, get an order of protection, and other community services.








                                COVID-19 glossary
                                






Common questions about COVID-19


From Asymptomatic to Zoonotic: A COVID-19 Glossary














Community presentation requests
It is crucial that we all stay informed on the latest information regarding COVID-19. The Speaker's Bureau provides presentations with the latest information, resources, and guidance's for COVID-19 to the community. 
Learn more about how we can work with you to provide your organization with a presentation about COVID-19 and any relevant topics that your community is looking for. 








Donate or volunteer
The King County Regional Donations Connector is available online to link up individuals, businesses, nonprofits, and others who have resources with those who need them during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Donations Connector will help make sure services, supplies, and funding reach health care providers, first responders and social service entities working on the front lines. Find ways to offer help and request help.







 Contact/Where to get more information from King County



Medical questions related to COVID-19?
 Contact the call center between 8 AM to 7 PM PST at 206-477-3977


Non-medical questions about COVID-19 including compliance and business related issues?
 Contact the King County COVID-19 Business and Community Information Line (Monday – Friday) 8:30 AM – 4:30 PM at 206-296-1608


General questions about COVID-19 in Washington State
 Contact the Washington State Novel Coronavirus Call center at 800-525-0127






Anti-stigma resources and downloadable posters 














 Visit the Public Health Insider blog for more articles on COVID-19.







Last Updated June 13, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/data.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                COVID-19 data dashboards                        
        









                            COVID-19 data dashboards
                        






Daily Summary
Dashboard
UPDATED DAILY, 12:00-4:00 PM
This data dashboard shows total cases, deaths and demographics.



Key indicators of
COVID-19 activity
UPDATED ON TUESDAYS
This dashboard displays data on key indicators that track COVID-19 activity.



Economic, Social and Overall Health Impacts Dashboard
UPDATED WEEKLY
This dashboard shows changes  in key economic, social, and other health indicators resulting from strategies to slow the spread of COVID-19.





Race/Ethnicity
Dashboard
UPDATED ON MONDAYS
This dashboard shows the impacts of COVID-19 on communities of color compared to whites in King County, WA.



Syndromic Surveillance
  Dashboard
UPDATED ON WEDNESDAYS
This dashboard shows emergency department visits and hospitalizations for COVID-like illness and pneumonia at King County healthcare facilities. 



Long Term Care Facility
Dashboard
UPDATED ON THURSDAYS
This dashboard shows the impacts of COVID-19 on residents and staff of long term care facilities.







Homelessness
Dashboard
UPDATED ON THURSDAYS
This dashboard describes impacts of COVID-19 on individuals who are experiencing homelessness.







 See data reports related to COVID-19





Last Updated July 10, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/FAQ.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                Frequently asked questions                        
        









                            Frequently asked questions about coronavirus
                        





 Select a tab below to reveal information:

Stay Home—Stay Healthy
Local Health Orders and Directives



To help stop the spread of COVID-19, Governor Inslee has asked Washington residents to stay home as much as possible and do their part to keep everyone healthy.
This is especially important as the state begins to  gradually reopen and we work together to prevent outbreaks.
King County is currently in Phase 2 of the Safe Start plan.
Learn more about the order and Safe Start: www.coronavirus.wa.gov.



Local Health Order on Emergency Food – May 29, 2020
Local Health Officer Quarantine Directive and Amended Isolation Order – May 21, 2020
Amended Local Health Officer Order – May 20, 2020
"Local Health Officer Directive on Face Coverings – May 11, 2020








 Updated on July 10, 2020, 6:05 pm (updated information in questions #3, 23)



 A basic FAQ also available in PDF format



 Link/share this page at www.kingcounty.gov/covid/FAQ


This page is subject to change as new information becomes available. Be sure to press Refresh or Reload on your browser menu to ensure you're viewing the latest version of the page.






General information









                                1. What is COVID-19? 
                                





Novel coronavirus (COVID-19) is a new virus strain spreading from person-to-person that has not been previously identified. It is currently in the United States and most other countries in the world. Health experts are concerned because this new virus spreads easily and has the potential to cause severe illness and pneumonia in some people — especially people over age 60 or who have weakened immune systems.







                                2. How does COVID-19 spread?
                                





COVID-19 is thought to spread mainly through close contact from person-to-person. Some people without symptoms may be able to spread the virus. 
COVID-19 may also be spread by a person touching a surface or object that has the virus on it, then touching their own mouth, nose, or eyes. This is not thought to be the main way this virus is spreading.
The virus that causes COVID-19 spreads very easily between people in the following ways:

Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).

Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or talks. These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people nearby or be inhaled into the lungs.

COVID-19 may be spread by people who are not showing symptoms.

Health experts are still learning more about the spread and severity of illness COVID-19 causes.







                                3. How severe is COVID-19?
                                





Most COVID-19 illnesses are mild with fever and cough. The vast majority of people with novel coronavirus infection do not require hospital care. A smaller percentage of people get severely ill with lung and breathing problems. 
Older adults and people of any age with underlying health conditions are at an increased risk for severe illness. Severe illness means that someone with COVID-19 may require hospitalization, intensive care, a ventilator to help them breathe, or they may die.
COVID-19 is a new disease and we are still learning how it spreads and the severity of illness it causes. The CDC has also identified that people within the following groups may be at an increased risk for getting COVID-19 or severe illness, regardless of age: racial and ethnic minority groups; people who are pregnant or breastfeeding; people experiencing homelessness; people with disabilities; and people with developmental and behavioral disorders. 
The CDC offers resources to help support those needing extra precautions.







                                4. What are the symptoms?
                                





People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. People with these symptoms may have COVID-19: fever or chills, cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea. This list is not all possible symptoms. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you.







                                5. When do I seek medical evaluation and advice?
                                





If you have COVID-19-like symptoms, contact your regular doctor first. Do not go to the emergency room. Emergency rooms need to be able to serve those with the most critical needs. If you have difficulty breathing, it doesn’t mean you have novel coronavirus, but you should call 911. 
If you're over 60 and you have underlying conditions like diabetes, heart disease, and lung disease, come up with a plan with your doctor to identify your health risks for coronavirus and how to manage symptoms. Contact your doctor right away if you do have symptoms.
If you have symptoms and you were exposed to someone confirmed to have the virus, call your health care provider. If you do not have a healthcare provider, call the King County COVID-19 call center between 8 AM – 7 PM at 206-477-3977.
Need help finding a doctor or getting health insurance? Call the Community Health Access Program (CHAP): 1 (800) 756-5437 or the Help Me Grow Washington Hotline: 1 (800) 322-2588.







                                6. How can I protect myself from COVID-19?
                                





It's important that everyone take steps to reduce the spread of novel coronavirus, especially to protect those who are more vulnerable. Steps you can take to prevent spread of flu and the common cold will also help prevent coronavirus:

wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If not available, use hand sanitizer.

avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands

avoid contact with people who are sick especially if you are 60 or over or have an underlying health condition, like heart disease, diabetes, lung disease or a weakened immune system.  
stay home while you are sick and  stay at least 6 feet away from others.

cover your mouth/nose with a tissue or sleeve when coughing or sneezing
wear a cloth mask which covers your mouth and nose, when outside your home.

If you are traveling overseas, check for the latest COVID-19 Travel Alerts and follow the CDC's Travelers' Health guidance.
 Currently, there are no vaccines available to prevent COVID-19 infections.







                                7. How is COVID-19 treated?
                                





There are no medications specifically approved for COVID-19. Most people with mild COVID-19 illness will recover on their own by drinking plenty of fluids, resting, and taking pain and fever medications. However, some cases develop pneumonia and require medical care or hospitalization.







                                8. Am I required to wear a face covering?
                                





The Washington Department of Health requires anyone in Washington State to wear a cloth face covering in public when unable to stay 6 feet away from others.
You are directed to wear face coverings over your nose and mouth while in an indoor public setting where you may be within 6 feet of someone who does not live with you. You are also directed to wear a cloth face covering in an outdoor public setting – like a farmers market or a crowded park – where it is difficult to maintain six feet of physical distance at all times.
A face covering is not needed when you are outside walking, exercising, or otherwise outdoors if you are able to regularly stay 6 feet away from other people who do not live with you.
To protect yourself, wear face coverings properly. Your mask should cover your nose and mouth at all times. Always wash your hands with soap and water or use hand sanitizer before you put on a face covering and after removing it. Change your face covering when it gets moist. Wash your face covering after each use.
For more information, including DIY face covering instructions and business signage resources, visit kingcounty.gov/masks.







                                9. Why is the face covering requirement in place?
                                





The CDC recommends that in communities like King County and Washington State, where there is significant community-based transmission, all individuals cover their noses and mouths with a cloth face covering to prevent spreading COVID-19.
We know people with COVID-19 may not show symptoms and can still spread the virus to others. Recent research indicates wearing a face covering can significantly reduce the spread and incidence of COVID-19.
We have made progress slowing the spread of COVID-19 in our communities, but most people do not have immunity to the disease and remain susceptible. As a community, a surge of new cases could make many more people ill and overwhelm our health care system’s ability to treat those with serious complications of the disease and non-COVID related emergencies.







                                10. Can you get re-infected with COVID-19?
                                





It is currently unknown how long COVID-19 immunity lasts after the initial infection with disease. It may be possible to become infected with COVID-19 twice. 








Testing for COVID-19
Seattle and King County is now recommending that anyone who has COVID-19 symptoms or close contact with someone who has COVID-19 be tested right away. Contact a healthcare provider to discuss the need for testing.
Testing as soon as possible after symptoms appear is important to prevent COVID-19 from spreading to family, friends, and the community.
For more information, visit Public Health's COVID-19 testing page.









                                11. Who should get tested for COVID-19?
                                





Anyone who is experiencing even mild COVID-like symptoms should isolate themselves away from others and call their healthcare provider. Getting tested as soon as possible is important to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Anyone with these symptoms should call their provider to be evaluated for a test:

Cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever or chills, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, or diarrhea. 

It is important to isolate yourself as soon as you develop symptoms, even before you are tested, because if you have COVID-19, you are already contagious.
If you have been in close contact for more than 15 minutes with someone who has COVID-19, it's important to get tested right away, even if you don't have symptoms. Take action quickly and follow the instructions on this "What to do" factsheet.







                                12. How do I get a test for COVID-19?
                                





Most testing is completed through healthcare providers. You should call your healthcare provider if you feel sick, live in the same household as someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, or have been in close contact with someone diagnosed with COVID-19. Each healthcare system has its own testing processes. Many providers require appointments to prevent overcrowding and to be sure that they have supplies.
If you need to be tested and don't have a provider who can do the test, check out the list of FREE testing locations in King County or call the King County COVID-19 call center from 8 AM – 7 PM at 206-477-3977.







                                13. Where can I get tested?
                                





If you have a doctor or healthcare provider, call them to be evaluated for a test.
If you don't have a healthcare provider, free or low-cost testing is available at several King County locations, regardless of immigration status. Multiple languages are spoken and phone interpretation is available at each site. You can also call the King County COVID-19 Call Center at 206-477-3977 from 8 AM – 7 PM for assistance. If you need an interpreter, say the name of your language.








Federal, state, and local Public Health response to COVID-19









                                14. How does Public Health track potential cases in King County?
                                





Contact tracing is part of the overall strategy to control the spread of COVID-19 in our community. By identifying those who had close contact with someone with COVID-19, we can let them know that they should get tested and quarantine themselves. 
Case interviews and contact tracing is primarily done by Public Health – Seattle & King County with support from WA Department of Health. Most of the callers are county staff but you may receive a call from state volunteers or the National Guard.
You will be asked demographic questions about your date of birth, address, gender at birth, race and ethnicity, occupation, your COVID-19 illness, how you think you were exposed to COVID-19, places you visited, and who you have come into close contact with. Any information they collect will only be shared with public health professionals who are working to contain the virus. The caller can also help connect you to any support you might need.
You will NOT be asked about your immigration status, social security number, finances, or marital status. Do not provide this information to someone who is calling you for a case interview or contact tracing.







                                15. What quarantine measures has the federal government put into place?
                                





On January 31, 2020, the U.S. federal government announced that the COVID-19 situation was a Public Health Emergency.
Since then, the federal government has announced a number of quarantine measures, including suspending entry of foreign nationals who have visited one of the following countries in the past 14 days: 

China 
Iran 
European Schengen area (Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Monaco, San Marino, Vatican City) 
United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland) 
 Republic of Ireland

In addition, U.S. citizens, residents and their immediate family members who traveled to China are being given a health screening upon entry at eleven designated airports. They are allowed to continue on to their final destination if they do not have any symptoms of illness and will undergo up to 14 days of self-quarantine to ensure they have not contracted the virus.
The federal government is frequently updating its Travel Alerts and may add travelers returning from other countries to the list of who should be monitored.







                                16. What is a quarantine and why is it used?
                                





Quarantine is put into place to prevent the possible spread of an infectious disease from someone who may have been exposed to the disease but is not yet sick. When people are quarantined, they are kept separate from others until they are out of the period when they could get sick. During that time, health officials track their health so that if they do develop symptoms, they can get them to a healthcare provider quickly for evaluation, testing if needed, and care.







                                17. Is quarantine different from isolation?
                                





Yes.

Quarantine is for people who are not currently showing symptoms but are at increased risk for having been exposed to an infectious disease. Quarantine is for people who could become sick and spread the infection to others.


Isolation is used for people who are currently ill and able to spread the disease and who need to stay away from others in order to avoid infecting them.








                                18. How does self-quarantine work?
                                





When people are in self-quarantine, they have no symptoms, but because there is a possibility that they might have been exposed, they stay away from others in public settings. For 14 days from their last possible exposure, people in self-quarantine cannot go to work, school, or any public places where they could have close contact with others. Public health departments direct them in how to monitor their health so that should they develop symptoms, they can be quickly and safely isolated from all others, including those in their household.
We've found that people who are asked to self-quarantine want to do whatever they can to remain healthy, prevent others from becoming ill, and are very cooperative with our recommendations.







                                19. Can people in self-quarantine still have contact with their household members?
                                





Yes, people in self-quarantine are not sick and can still have contact with their household members. Should they develop any symptoms, they are asked to quickly and safely isolate from all others, including those in their household, and to contact their medical provider.







                                20. What are King County Isolation and Quarantine sites? 
                                





Isolation and quarantine sites are available to provide isolation and quarantine assistance to help residents who are not able to isolate and recovery in their own home. Examples of people who may need this assistance include people who cannot safely isolate from a family member who is elderly or medically fragile, or people experiencing homelessness. Individuals can only be placed into the King County sites after a health professional with Public Health has determined that they need isolation or quarantine. 
Learn more from the King County Dept. of Community and Human Services.







                                21. Are travelers being screened for COVID-19 at the airport?
                                





Currently, all international travelers arriving into the US should stay home for 14 days after their arrival. At home, they are expected to monitor their health and practice social distancing. To protect the health of others, these travelers should not to go to work or school for 14 days.
For more information, check out CDC’s Travel Guidance.








COVID-19 in King County









                                22. What is the current situation in Washington and King County?
                                





COVID-19 case and death counts are updated daily on the COVID-19 dashboard.
Although most of the cases will be mild or moderate, the infection can cause serious illness and there is a potential for many people to become ill at the same time, overwhelming our healthcare system. If that happens, people requiring care may not be able to get it when they need it. Every King County resident has a responsibility to each other to make sure our community collectively lessens the impact of this disease.
Anyone who is sick should stay home. Anyone who develops symptoms of COVID-19, as well as their close contacts, should follow Public Health guidance addressing what to do if you have confirmed or suspected COVID-19 or are worried that you do.
Washington is conducting a county-by-county based Safe Start reopening plan for resuming recreational, social and business activities. King County is currently in Phase 2.







                                23. What is Public Health recommending to slow the spread of COVID-19?
                                





Public Health has issued several measures to help slow the spread of COVID-19. We strongly encourage everyone to avoid all non-essential contact with others in the community regardless of whether they are young and healthy or not.
Now more than ever, we need everyone to slow the spread of COVID-19. Minimize in-person contact. Take distancing and ventilation seriously. Wear a mask or cloth face covering. Wash your hands often.
Public Health continues to work with state and local partners to coordinate on what is best for our community, continuously monitor the situation, and adapt as necessary to the changing circumstances.







                                24. What is the Governor's Stay Home—Stay Healthy Order? 
                                





To help stop the spread of COVID-19, Governor Inslee has asked Washington residents to stay home as much as possible and do their part to keep everyone healthy. This is especially important as the state begins to gradually reopen and we work together to prevent outbreaks.
Avoiding group gatherings, staying 6 feet away from others, wearing a cloth face covering and engaging in good hygiene such as hand-washing are all ways we can do our part to keep ourselves, our families, workers and our communities safe.
For more information on Washington’s COVID-19 response, visit www.coronavirus.wa.gov







                                25. What should I be doing as an individual?
                                





Public Health and the Governor's Office asks everyone to avoid all non-essential contact with others in the community, regardless of whether they are young and healthy or not.

Stay at home as much as possible. What does it mean to stay home?
Limit trips for groceries, gas and other essentials.
If you must go out, stay at least 6 feet away from others at all times.
Wear a cloth face covering when you are at any indoor or outdoor public space where you are within 6 feet of others.
Continue to practice healthy hand hygiene, cough into sleeves, stay home when sick, and disinfect high-touch surfaces both inside and outside their home.
  Do not buy more than you need. Many are overstocking on products that  sick neighbors, healthcare providers, and emergency providers need like hand  sanitizer and disinfectant wipes. Leave some for your neighbors!


King County is currently in the Phase 2 of the Safe Start plan to gradually and carefully reopen the local economy. Please follow this Safe Start guidance and limit non-essential activities.







                                26. How can we ensure COVID-19 pandemic event enforcement will not be biased toward our racial and ethnic communities? 
                                





Community members continue to voice  concerns about how xenophobia (discrimination based on national origin) and  racist actions are impacting their neighborhoods, families, and businesses.  This has had a devastating impact on our Chinese and Asian communities.
We know at times like these, racial and  ethnic communities experience increased acts of racism, racial profiling and  violence. We realize that the way we approach enforcement will require  considering and eliminating any negative impact on these groups. 
Part of King County’s response to  COVID-19 has included an Equity Response Team (ERT) to review equity impact in  the decision-making process. The ERT makes actionable recommendations to  leadership in order to reduce harm. Racism and other forms of discrimination  are called out explicitly and the ERT will continue to assess how this  enforcement, as well as other decisions and actions, will hold King County  accountable to our “Fair and Just” principles.
We want to reiterate that King County  will not tolerate hate and discrimination of any kind by anyone. If you are  aware of any issues, please report this information to these resources: 

Washington State Human Rights Commission (Toll-Free: +1-800-233-3247)
King County Office of Civil Rights (206-263-2446) 
Seattle Office for Civil Rights (206-684-4500)
Tacoma Human Rights (253-591-5045)










 The Washington State Dept. of Health has established a call center to address questions from the public.
If you have questions about what is happening in Washington state, how the virus is spread, and what to do if you have symptoms, please call 1-800-525-0127 and press #.




































Last Updated July 10, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/FAQ/glossary.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Frequently asked questions

                       
                Glossary                        
        









                            From Asymptomatic to Zoonotic: A COVID-19 Glossary
                        





Living through the COVID-19 pandemic means dealing with a new and sometimes confusing vocabulary. Here's a guide to some of the most common words and phrases you might come across.









                                Asymptomatic
                                





Not having signs of illness (symptoms). People who are asymptomatic can still be infected with COVID-19 and can spread the virus to others.







                                Case fatality rate (CFR)
                                





The number of deaths divided by the total number of known cases of a disease. For example, if 100 people in a community are diagnosed with COVID-19 and two of them die, the case fatality rate is 2/100, or 2%.
  
It's important to keep in mind that the CFR often overestimates the actual mortality (death) rate, and can make a disease seem more deadly than it is. That’s because some people never get diagnosed, so we don't always have an accurate count of the cases.







                                Close contact
                                





You generally need to be in close contact with a person that has COVID-19 to get infected. Close contact includes: 

Living in the same household as a person with COVID-19 

Caring for a person with COVID-19 

Being within 6 feet of a person with COVID-19 for at least 15 minutes, OR 

Being in direct contact with saliva or other body secretions from a person with COVID-19 (e.g., being coughed on, kissing, sharing utensils, etc.).

Any of these activities for any duration may put someone at greater risk of contracting COVID-19 from someone who is infected. Previously, the CDC had defined prolonged close contact as a time period of 10 or more minutes. This definition has been extended to 15 or more minutes, which aligns with the time period used in the CDC’s guidance for contact tracing.







                                Cluster
                                





A collection of cases happening in the same place around the same time, above what is normal. For example, you might see a cluster of cases in a long-term care facility, a workplace, or among people who attended a party.







                                Community transmission
                                





When a contagious disease is spreading in a community but we don’t know how or where every infected person got exposed. 







                                Confirmed case
                                





A person (with or without symptoms) who received a positive result from a COVID-19 laboratory test.







                                Contact tracing
                                





Identifying all the people who may have been in close contact with an infected person while they were contagious. 







                                Coronavirus
                                





A family of viruses. Some coronaviruses cause the common cold, and others cause serious health issues, like pneumonia. Coronaviruses start in animals, like camels, civets and bats. Most of the time, people can’t catch coronavirus. But once in a while, a coronavirus can spread from animals to people and then from person to person.







                                COVID-19
                                





A shorthand for "coronavirus disease 2019."







                                Epidemic
                                





An increase in the number of cases of a disease in a population, above what is normal. Epidemics often happen suddenly. COVID-19 began as an epidemic in China. 







                                Epidemiology
                                





The study of the spread or pattern of sickness in a group of people.







                                Exposed
                                





When a person comes into contact with a germ that causes disease. For example, a doctor might get exposed to COVID-19 while caring for an infected patient.







                                Flattening the curve
                                





Slowing the spread of a disease so that you don’t overwhelm the healthcare system. The “curve” represents the number of cases over time. When you flatten the curve, you prevent a big spike of new cases in a short period of time. Instead, you’ll probably see the same number of cases spread out over a longer period of time. 







                                Hand hygiene
                                





Washing hands with clean, running water and soap for at least 20 seconds. Or using hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. Hand hygiene is a key strategy for slowing the spread of COVID-19 and many other diseases.







                                High-risk populations
                                





Certain groups of people who are more likely to get seriously ill from COVID-19. People over 60, people with underlying health issues, and pregnant people may be at higher risk.







                                Immunity
                                





Protection from disease. If you have immunity to a disease, you won’t get sick from it.







                                Immunocompromised
                                





Having a reduced ability to fight infections and other diseases. People can be immunocompromised because of certain conditions, like AIDS, cancer, and diabetes, or because of certain medications and treatments, like chemotherapy. People who are immunocompromised may be more likely to get very sick from COVID-19.







                                Incubation period
                                





The time between when a person first gets exposed to a germ and when they develop symptoms. For COVID-19, the incubation period ranges from 2 to 14 days. 







                                Novel coronavirus
                                





A coronavirus strain that we haven't seen before. COVID-19 is novel because it is a new respiratory virus that was first identified in Wuhan, China in December 2019. Health experts are concerned because this new virus can cause severe illness and death in some people. 







                                Outbreak
                                





Same definition as epidemic, but used for a smaller geographic area. For example, King County’s COVID-19 outbreak began in late February.







                                Pandemic
                                





An epidemic that has spread over several countries or continents. Pandemics usually affect a large number of people. It’s important to remember that the word pandemic is mostly about how much a disease has spread, not how dangerous the disease is. COVID-19 is now a pandemic because many countries throughout the world have cases.







                                Personal protective equipment (PPE)
                                





Special clothing or equipment to protect people from infection. PPE can include gloves, gowns, aprons, masks, respirators, goggles, and face shields. It’s especially important for healthcare providers and emergency responders to have PPE.







                                Pneumonia
                                





An infection of the lungs that can make it harder to breath. Pneumonia can range from mild to life-threatening. 







                                Reproductive rate
                                





Also called the R0, pronounced "R naught": A mathematical term that can indicate how quickly a disease is spreading. R0 tells you the average number of susceptible (unvaccinated, not protected) people who will catch a disease from one contagious person. If the R0 is 2, then on average, every case will create two new cases.
It's important to remember that the R0 can change over time and place. It depends on a lot of different factors, like environmental conditions and people's behaviors. For example, when people practice social distancing, the R0 may decrease.







                                Respiratory droplet
                                





The spray made when a person sneezes, coughs, or even talks. In general, respiratory droplets can travel up to six feet before dropping to the ground or a nearby surface.







                                Respiratory illness
                                





An illness that affects the parts of the body involved with breathing, like the nose, throat, and lungs. 







                                SARS-CoV-2
                                





The specific coronavirus that causes COVID-19 disease.







                                Screening
                                





A health check to see whether a person has a disease. You can screen by taking a person’s temperature and asking questions about symptoms. 







                                Self-isolation
                                





Staying home and away from others while you are ill. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or a positive test, you should self-isolate. Your isolation can end when:

Your symptoms get a lot better AND

You have had no fever for at least 72 hours without the use of medicine AND 

At least 7 days have passed since your symptoms started.








                                Self-monitor
                                





Checking yourself for symptoms. This includes regularly checking your temperature (typically, twice a day) and watching for signs of a respiratory illness, like fever, cough, or shortness of breath. 







                                Self-quarantine
                                





Staying home and away from others when you are feeling well but are watching for symptoms. Health experts recommend you self-quarantine for 14 days when you’ve been in close contact with someone that has COVID-19. During those 14 days, you should self-monitor for symptoms and call your healthcare provider if you develop fever, cough, or shortness of breath.







                                Social distancing (also called physical distancing)
                                





Increasing the physical space between people to avoid spreading illness. Right now, we can practice social distancing by staying home as much as possible and keeping at least six feet away from other people when we need to go out.







                                Surveillance
                                





Collecting, analyzing, and interpreting health-related data. Surveillance helps public health professionals plan, carry out, and evaluate their work.







                                Suspected case
                                





A person that shows symptoms of COVID-19 but either has not been tested or is waiting for test results. If test results are positive, a suspected case becomes a confirmed case.







                                Symptomatic
                                





Having signs of illness (symptoms). The most common COVID-19 symptoms are fever, cough, and shortness of breath.







                                Transmission
                                





How a disease moves around, or spreads. Diseases can be transmitted in a few different ways. Some of these include:

Direct contact: when a disease spreads through skin-to-skin contact, kissing,  and sexual intercourse.


Droplet transmission: when a disease spreads by traveling on droplets of fluid, like  saliva and mucus. When an infected person coughs, sneezes, or even just talks,  droplets can land in the mouths, noses, or eyes of people who are nearby.  People can also breathe the droplets into their lungs. Droplet transmission can  also happen when a person touches something that has infected droplets on it,  and then touches their face. Droplet transmission is the most common way  COVID-19 spreads.


Airborne  transmission: when germs are  carried by dust or tiny droplets (called "droplet nuclei") that hang in the  air. Unlike droplets that fall to the ground within a few feet, droplet nuclei  can hang in the air for long periods of time and can be blown over long  distances. It's possible that COVID-19 can be airborne, especially in certain  settings like hospitals where special equipment may be used. But scientists  don't currently think this is the main way COVID-19 spreads.








                                Ventilator
                                





A machine that helps patients breath when their lungs aren’t working well and they can’t get enough oxygen on their own. 







                                Zoonotic
                                





A disease that spreads between animals and people. Common examples include rabies, Lyme disease, and West Nile virus.










Sources



Principles of Epidemiology in Public Health Practice, Third Edition, an Introduction to Applied Epidemiology and Biostatistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC): 
 
Lesson 1, Introduction to Epidemiology, Section 10, Chain of Infection
Lesson 1, Introduction to Epidemiology, Section 11, Epidemic Disease Occurrence
Lesson 3, Measures of Risk, Section 3, Mortality Frequency Measures




Introduction to Public Health Surveillance (CDC)
Modes of transmission of virus causing COVID-19: implications for IPC (World Health Organization) 
Interim Guidance on Management of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Correctional and Detention Facilities (CDC)
Dictionary of Cancer Terms (National Cancer Institute) 
Must-Know Vocab for COVID-19: From Droplets to Zoonotic (NPR)
COVID-19: Understanding Quarantine, Isolation, and Social Distancing in a Pandemic (Cleveland Clinic)








Last Updated April 29, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/contact.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources

                       
                Contact us                        
        









                            Contact us about COVID-19
                        






Medical questions related to COVID-19?
    Contact the Novel Coronavirus Call Center between 8 AM to 7 PM at 206-477-3977.


Non-medical questions about COVID-19 including compliance and business related issues?
    Contact the King County COVID-19 Business and Community Information Line (Monday – Friday) 8:30 AM – 4:30 PM at 206-296-1608.


General questions about COVID-19 in Washington State
    Contact the Washington State Novel Coronavirus Call Center at 800-525-0127.


Send us an email* using our online form or email us directly at coronavirus@kingcounty.gov
      *Due to a large number of incoming emails regarding COVID-19, we may not be able to respond to you immediately.






Last Updated April 26, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/languages/ASL.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                In-language materials

                       
                ASL for D/HOH & DB                        
        









                            COVID-19 resources in ASL for D/HOH & DB
                        

                                American Sign Language for the Deaf/Hard of Hearing and DeafBlind
                            










                                1. What is COVID-19?
                                





Novel coronavirus (COVID-19) is a new virus strain spreading from person-to-person. It is currently in the United States and many other countries, after originating in China. Health experts are concerned because this new virus has the potential to cause severe illness and pneumonia in some people — especially people over age 60 or who have weakened immune systems.










                                2. Physical distancing and reopening of Washington
                                















                                3. Who is most at risk?
                                





People at high risk for complications from COVID-19 are:

People older than 60 years

People with chronic medical conditions

People with weakened immune systems

Pregnant people








                                4. How does COVID-19 spread?
                                





Health experts are still learning more about the spread. Currently it is thought to spread:

through respiratory droplets when an infected person coughs or sneezes

between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet)

by touching a surface or object with the virus and then touching the mouth, nose, or eyes











                                5. What are the COVID-19 symptoms?
                                





People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. People with these symptoms may have COVID-19: cough, shortness of breath, or difficulty breathing. They may also have COVID-19 if they have at least two of these symptoms: fever, chills, repeated shaking with chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, or a new loss of taste or smell.

Frequently asked questions about coronavirus











                                6. What do I do if I am sick?
                                





If you are ill with fever and a cough or shortness of breath, stay home. If you are unsure of how to care for yourself or are concerned about your condition, call your health care provider for advice. If you feel you need to visit your doctor, call them first. Keep yourself separated from other people and animals in your home. Cover your coughs and sneezes and wash your hands often.










                                7. Tools for visiting the doctor or hospital
                                






COVID Visual Tool (PDF), National Association of the Deaf
COVID-19 and the Deaf/Hard-of Hearing Community, Chad Ruffin
Communications and Medical Access in the Hospitals During a Disaster, Hearing Loss Association of America
  (may also be useful while in rehab facilities or at home and unable to have visitors)  








                                8. Information on face coverings
                                









Read the text of the video script (PDF)
DHH Mask Project and Tutorial (PDF)








                                9. Stigma and COVID-19
                                





Misinformation about coronavirus can create fear and hostility that hurts people and makes it harder to keep everyone healthy. We're stronger as a community when we stand together against discrimination. Take advantage of these resources to prevent, interrupt, and respond to stigma.










                                10. Resources
                                





Videos from the Washington State Dept. of Health (DOH):

DOH web series
DOH Phases of reopening:
    
Watch full video or separated by Phase:
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Phase 4
Requirements for individuals and businesses
For individuals
For employers



Other resources:

CDC web series
ASL Resources for COVID
Hearing Loss Association of America
Rooted in Rights
Daily Moth
CSD









                                11. DeafBlind resources
                                






American Foundation for the Blind
Communication Facilitator Program








                                12. Contact information for interpretation services
                                





Dial 711 to be automatically connected to a TRS operator. It's fast, functional and free. Dialing 711, both voice and TRS users can initiate a call from any telephone, anywhere in the United States, without having to remember and dial a ten-digit access number.










King County COVID-19 Call Centers



Medical questions related to COVID-19
        Contact the call center between 8 AM to 7 PM PST at 206-477-3977


Non-medical questions about COVID-19 including compliance and business related issues
        Contact the King County COVID-19 Business and Community Information Line (Monday – Friday) 8:30 AM – 4:30 PM at 206-296-1608


General questions about COVID-19 in Washington State
        Contact the Washington State Novel Coronavirus Call center at 800-525-0127





ASL Now COVID-19 Hotline



Got questions? Call the hotline using ASL Now or VP (833) 682-7630.

This hotline does not give medical advice. The agents taking your call have no medical training. If you're calling because you're sick, call 911 or your primary care physician.


Can't use ASL Now? See what's combinable.








Last Updated May 6, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/providers/LTCF.aspx


Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/providers/LTCF.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For healthcare and service providers

                       
                Long-term care facilities                        
        









                            Recommendations for long-term care facilities
                        





This webpage provides up-to-date resources to assist long-term care facilities in their response to the COVID-19 outbreak.
Long-term care facilities are at high risk for severe COVID-19 outbreaks due to their congregate nature and vulnerable population (e.g., older adults with multiple co-morbidities). They play a critical role in the COVID-19 response.
State of Washington has launched a phone hotline for questions about long-term care facilities; call 888-856-5691 (open 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily).










Letters to the administrators of long-term care facilities, from Health Officer, Dr. Jeff Duchin:

COVID-19 testing protocol for residents and staff of LTCFs (Updated 4/23/2020)
    Public Health recommends long-term care facilities take all potential steps to identify infections early. This includes, when possible, testing all residents and staff on a voluntary basis even before a case has been confirmed in the facility in order to identify unrecognized cases and facilitate disease control measures. Read the full letter of recommendations.


All deaths in residents of licensed LTCFs to be reported (Updated 4/27/2020)
    In order to identify the extent of the COVID-19 pandemic in Seattle and King County, Public Health is requesting that all deaths in residents of licensed long-term care facilities be reported to the King County Medical Examiner’s Office (MEO) to determine if post-mortem COVID-19 testing is indicated. Read the full letter for MEO’s reporting process.











                                General infection control
                                






Updated nursing home assessment tool, DOH

Additional Guidance for Facilities with cases of COVID-19 or sustained transmission in the community, CDC
Long Term Care Call to Action letter, WA State Dept. of Health
Additional LTCF guidance materials, WA State Dept. of Health
Preparing for COVID-19: Long Term Care Facilities, Nursing Homes, CDC








                                Symptom monitoring and testing
                                






COVID-19 Testing Handbook for Assisted Living Facilities (PDF)
Healthcare Personnel Symptom Monitoring form (PDF)

Signs and Symptoms of COVID-19 in the Elderly (PDF)

Testing priority guidance, WA State Dept. of Health








                                Reporting to Public Health
                                





Report to Public Health promptly when either:

COVID-19 is diagnosed in a resident or staff member or 
More than one resident or staff member in the facility develop COVID-19 like illness in a 14 day period.  To report concerns about a case, cluster, or outbreak, please use this form.  


LTCF COVID Consecutive Report Form (PDF)
Line List for COVID-19 Outbreaks in Long Term Care Facilities (PDF)








                                Cleaning, disinfection, and hygiene guidance
                                






Guidelines for cleaning and disinfection for SARS-CoV-2, CDC (PDF)
Recomendaciones para la limpieza y desinfección de SARS-CoV-2, CDC (PDF)
Standard precautions and hand hygiene checklist, CDC (PDF)








                                PPE guidance
                                






PPE Burn rate calculator, CDC
 Conserving PPE, CDC
Conserving PPE, FDA
Guidance for PPE Conservation and alternatives when PPE is unavailable, PHSKC
PPE competency checklist, NC SPICE
Standard precautions and PPE checklist, CDC

How to request PPE

Request PPE through DSHS, DSHS

To request PPE from Public Health complete this form (Microsoft Excel format) and email to rcecc.logs@kingcounty.gov







                                Visitor restrictions
                                






COVID-19 sample announcement for visitors, WA State Dept. of Health








                                Readmitting or admitting new residents
                                






Guidance regarding admission of COVID-19 positive residents, WA State Dept. of Health








                                CMS memos and evaluation tools
                                






COVID-19 focused survey for Nursing Homes, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
COVID-19 memos, WA State Dept. of Health (memos located in the bottom section of this website)








                                Relevant published literature on COVID-19 in LTCFs
                                






COVID-19 in a Long-Term Care Facility — King County, Washington, February 27–March 9, 2020


Asymptomatic and Presymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 Infections in Residents of a Long-Term Care Skilled Nursing Facility — King County, Washington, March








                                Staffing resources
                                






Request staffing resources, Washington State Department of Health










Last Updated May 21, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/providers/waste-management.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For healthcare and service providers

                       
                Solid waste and biomedical waste handling                        
        









                            COVID-19 guidance for solid waste and biomedical waste handling
                        









 This page is also in PDF format



 Link/share this page: www.kingcounty.gov/covid/waste-management

The purpose of this document is to provide guidance for health care facilities and solid waste handlers to differentiate waste streams that come into contact with COVID-19 patients in order to clearly identify which wastes are appropriate for the municipal waste streams and which wastes are identified as biomedical waste as defined in local, state, and federal regulations.









                                Waste handling and management considerations for COVID-19
                                






Workers and employers should manage municipal solid waste with potential or known COVID-19 contamination like any other non-contaminated municipal waste.
Use typical engineering and administrative controls, safe work practices, and PPE, such as puncture-resistant gloves and face and eye protection, to prevent exposure to the waste, including any contaminants in the materials.
Such measures can help protect workers from sharps and other items that can cause injuries or exposures to infectious materials.
Do not touch your face.
Wash your hands frequently when possible or use alcohol-based sanitizer as an alternative if handwashing is not available.
 Do not come to work if you feel sick.








                                What is biomedical waste?
                                






Waste with blood, excretions, exudates, or secretions from humans or animals with biosafety level 4 pathogens

Note: According to current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) information, COVID-19 is at biosafety level 3.

Human blood and blood components and materials containing free-flowing blood and blood products. 
Sharps that have been used in animal or human patients such as needles and syringes, IV tubing, scalpel blades, and lancets that have been removed from the original sterile package. 
Cultures and stocks of infectious agents to humans and laboratory waste that has come into contact with cultures and stocks of etiologic agents or blood specimens.
Pathological wastes such as human tissues, organs, body parts and body fluids that are removed during surgery, procedures and autopsy 
Animal waste that are known to be infected with or that have been inoculated with pathogens infectious to humans 

City of Seattle only: Waste that may contain pathogens in sufficient concentrations to create a significant risk of disease, as determined by the biomedical waste generator's infection control staff/committee







                                Common healthcare wastes that are not biomedical waste
                                






Personal protective equipment (PPE) of  health care workers e.g. disposable gloves, gown, and respiratory  protection 
Spent dust filters 
Textile wastes e.g. bedding, towels, and clothing 
  Human blood and blood products that are absorbed  by materials such as bandages, napkins or commercial absorbents that fluid will  not be released from the material and/or become airborne








                                Who is a biomedical waste generator?
                                





Home-generated biomedical waste is excluded from the definition of biomedical waste generator. Businesses and industries that are considered biomedical waste generators include but are not limited to the following:

General acute care hospitals
      Surgical clinics
      Urgent care clinics
      Intermediate care facilities 
      Acute psychiatric hospitals
      Skilled nursing facility or convalescent hospitals 
      In-patient care facilities for the developmentally disabled
    Chronic dialysis clinics
Community clinics
      Health maintenance organizations
      Laboratories
      Medical buildings
      Physicians’ offices and clinics
      Dental offices and clinics
      Funeral homes 
    Veterinary offices and clinics








                                What does a biomedical waste generator need to do?
                                





As a biomedical waste generator, local regulations in Seattle and King County require the following:

Have a Biomedical Waste Management Plan available for Public Health inspection

Segregate biomedical waste from other wastes at the point of origin

Properly store, label, and contain biomedical waste

Have biomedical waste treated by a Public Health-permitted vendor if not treated onsite 

Have biomedical waste transported by a Public Health-permitted vendor








                                What needs to go into a Biomedical Waste Management Plan?
                                





Work with your facility’s safety team to develop your biomedical waste management plan. The following are some key components to include in your plan. Guidance for developing a plan is available online through King County Board of Health Code, Title 10 (PDF). The plan should be available for inspection at Public Health’s request. The biomedical waste management plan must include:

Infection control staff/committee member(s) names and contact information
Phone numbers of responsible individuals
Definition of wastes handled by the system
Department and individual responsibilities
Procedures for waste identification, segregation, containment, transport, treatment, treatment monitoring, and disposal
Contingency planning
Identify staff/house-keeping training for biomedical waste identification 
Compliance with biomedical waste regulations
Chief executive's officer endorsement letter








                                Who should I contact if you have questions, concerns, or want to report mishandling?
                                





Please contact Public Health — Seattle & King County's Environmental Health Services Division at 206-263-9566 and ask to speak with the Solid Waste Program. Office hours are Monday, Wednesday, and Friday 8:00 am to 3:00 pm, and Tuesday and Thursday 10:30 am to 3:00 pm.







                                References and resources
                                






Chapter 70.95K RCW


King County Board of Health Title 10 (PDF)


Seattle-Washington Municipal Code, Chapter 21.43 infectious waste management


CDC Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines for Handling and Processing Specimens Associated with Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)


OSHA Safety and Health Topics COVID-19


CDC COVID-19 Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection


King County Department of Natural Resources and Parks, Solid Waste Division, Waste Acceptance Rule PUT-7-1-6-PR










Last Updated April 26, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/providers/PPE-shortage.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For healthcare and service providers

                       
                PPE conservation and alternatives                        
        









                            Guidance for PPE conservation and alternatives when PPE is unavailable
                        

                                Information for health care providers
                            









 This page is also in PDF format



 Link/share: www.kingcounty.gov/covid/PPE


During times of severe personal protective equipment (PPE) shortages, individual measures/alternatives combined with administrative and engineering controls should be considered to support maintenance of the healthcare system response to COVID-19.
The following guidance has been extracted from CDC’s guidance on optimizing PPE supply and should not be used independently without reviewing the complete CDC guidance for context and recommendations.









                                1. N95 respirators in short supply or unavailable
                                






Preserve N95 respirators or suitable alternative respirators for aerosol-generating procedures (AGPs).



The following respirator product classifications are considered suitable alternatives: N100, P100, R100, N99, P99, R99, P95 and R95 



Consider using N95 respirators beyond the manufacturer-designated shelf life after taking the following precautions:



Visually inspect the N95 to determine if its integrity has been compromised, including checking components such as the straps, nose bridge, and nose foam material are not degraded.


Users should perform a user seal check immediately after donning the respirator. 


If the integrity of any part of the respirator is compromised, or if a successful user seal check cannot be performed, discard the respirator.

Limited re-use of N95 respirators when caring for patients with COVID-19 might become necessary, but caution should be used because of potential for contact transmission. Re-use should be implemented according to CDC guidance.


In settings where N95 respirators are unavailable, health care providers (HCP) may need to use surgical masks and facemasks, in addition to administrative and engineering controls:


Administrative controls:

Exclude HCP at higher risk (i.e. older age, chronic medical conditions, or pregnant) for severe illness from COVID-19 from contact with known or suspected COVID-19 patients.


Designate convalescent HCP for provision of care to known or suspected COVID-19 patients. Individuals who have recovered from COVID-19 infection may have developed some immunity, but this has not yet been confirmed.


Decrease the length of hospital stay for medically stable patients with COVID-19.




Engineering controls:

Use engineering controls for risk reduction including expedient patient isolation rooms with negative pressure zones and ventilated headboards.












                                2. Facemasks in short supply or unavailable
                                






Remove facemasks for visitors in public areas. Encourage visitors to wear cloth face coverings in accordance with the Local Health Officer Directive. Download related posters.


Cancel all elective and non-urgent procedures and appointments for which a facemask is typically used by a healthcare provider.


Implement extended use of facemasks according to the following guidelines:
    
The facemask should be discarded if soiled, damaged, or hard to breathe through.

HCP must take care not to touch their facemask. If they touch or adjust their facemask they must immediately perform hand hygiene.

HCP should leave the patient care area if they need to remove the facemask.




Restrict facemasks to use by HCP, rather than patients for source control.
    
Have patients with symptoms of respiratory infection use tissues or other barriers to cover their mouth and nose.




Use facemasks beyond the manufacturer-designated shelf life during patient care activities. Inspect the mask and if degraded or torn, discard and do not use.


Implement limited re-use of facemasks with caution because of potential for contact transmission.
    
Masks should not be touched during care and should be removed carefully, folding so that the outer surface is held inward against itself and stored in a clean breathable container.

Facemasks with ties should not be re-used because of potential for tearing during doffing.




Prioritize facemasks for selected activities: essential surgeries/procedures, when splashes/sprays are anticipated, when prolonged face-to-face contact with a potentially infectious patients is unavoidable or when performing AGPs and respirators aren’t available.


In settings where facemasks are unavailable, HCP may need to use faceshields that cover the entire front and sides of the face or homemade masks, in addition to administrative and engineering controls described above.
    
HCP might use homemade cloth face coverings (e.g., bandana, scarf) for care  of patients with COVID-19 as a last resort when medical-grade facemasks  are not available. Homemade cloth face  coverings are not considered PPE and should  ideally be used in combination with a face shield that covers the entire front and  sides of the face.










                                3. Eye protection in short supply or unavailable
                                






Shift eye protection supplies from disposable to re-usable devices (i.e., goggles and reusable face shields). Ensure appropriate cleaning and disinfection between users.


Implement extended use of eye protection and remove it when soiled or difficult to see through; discard if damaged. Eye protection should not be touched, and hand hygiene should be performed immediately if eye protection is touched.


Use eye protection devices beyond the shelf life during patient care activities; discard if degraded.


Prioritize eye protection for selected activities such as:
    
Aerosol generating procedures and those where splashes and sprays are anticipated.

Activities where prolonged face-to-face or close contact with a potentially infectious patient is unavoidable.




In settings where eye protection is unavailable, consider using safety glasses (e.g., trauma glasses) that have extensions to cover the side of the eyes in addition to administrative and engineering controls described above.









                                4. Isolation gowns in short supply or unavailable
                                





Please refer to CDC guidance on Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of Isolation Gowns for appropriate strategies depending on your organization's supply of isolation gowns.
Contingency Capacity Strategies:

Shift gown use toward cloth isolation gowns and consider use of coveralls.
    Crisis Capacity Strategies:

Implement extended use of isolation gowns in cases where patients are known to have the same infectious disease (e.g. in cohorted patients) and no additional co-infections are present.

Re-use cloth isolation gowns; any gown that becomes visibly soiled during patient care should be removed and cleaned. This strategy will not necessarily prevent transmission between patients and should be used with caution.

Prioritize gowns for activities like AGPs, where splashes/sprays are anticipated and for high contact patient care activities like bathing, transferring, etc.
    When no gowns are available:

In settings where gowns are unavailable, consider using gown alternatives, in addition to administrative and engineering controls described above. None of these options can be considered PPE, since their capability to protect HCP is unknown. Preferable features include long sleeves and closures (snaps, buttons) that can be fastened and secured.
    
Disposable laboratory coats or aprons

Reusable (washable) patient gowns or laboratory coats

Combinations of clothing: Combinations of pieces of clothing can be considered for activities that may involve body fluids and when there are no gowns available:
        
Long sleeve aprons in combination with long sleeve patient gowns or laboratory coats

Open back gowns with long sleeve patient gowns or laboratory coats

Sleeve covers with aprons and long sleeve patient gowns or laboratory coats


Reusable patient gowns and lab coats can be safely laundered according to routine procedures












Last Updated May 17, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/providers/PPE-guidance-behavioral-health.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For healthcare and service providers

                       
                PPE and mask guidance in behavioral health settings                        
        









                            Interim COVID-19 PPE and face covering guidance for behavioral health providers and clients
                        





 This page is also in PDF format

This document provides personal protective equipment (PPE) and cloth face covering guidance specific for behavioral health clinicians and clients during the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The following recommendations are based on CDC guidance for healthcare settings (updated 4/13/20) and include information on the Local Health Officer Directive on face coverings.

PPE For behavioral health providers
Behavioral health providers should consider the following recommendations when planning their PPE use.









                                1. Medical face masks
                                






Wear a medical facemask at all times while in the agency, clinic, or facility. 

Use a facemask instead of a cloth face covering, when available.
Prioritize facemasks for providers if there are anticipated shortages, then clients with symptoms of COVID-19, if supply allows.



Use a medical facemask before entry into care areas (clinic, therapy, or group rooms and client rooms) and shared spaces (e.g. milieu). 

To avoid risking self-contamination, consider continuing to wear a facemask (extended use) instead of intermittently switching back to their cloth face covering. The medical facemask should be removed and discarded if soiled, damaged, or hard to breathe through. 
Take care not to touch your medical facemask. Wash your hands before and after adjusting or touching a medical facemask.
Leave the client care area if you need to remove your medical facemask. 
Disposable medical facemasks should be removed and discarded after exiting the care area and closing the door unless implementing extended use or reuse.



 To reduce risk of medical facemasks being used as ligatures, use masks with elastic ear loops instead of ties or dispose of face masks with ties in a secure location not accessible by clients.








                                2. Cloth face coverings
                                





Providers should consider the following recommendations before using a cloth face covering:

Cloth face coverings are not considered PPE and should NOT be worn instead of a medical facemask if more protection beyond preventing infected individuals from spreading disease is required (for example as a barrier to blood, fecal matter, or other bodily fluids)


Wear a cloth face covering for parts of the day when not engaged in direct client care activities (e.g. clerical work) and switch to a medical facemask when PPE is required. 

Change cloth face coverings if soiled, damp, or hard to breathe through. 
Wash hands immediately before and after any contact with the cloth face covering.



After removing a medical face mask at the end of a shift, put on a cloth face covering when leaving the facility.


If medical masks are not available, cloth face coverings should be used in combination with a face shield that covers the entire front and sides of the face, extending to the chin or below.

Facilities should provide guidance and training about when, how, and where cloth face coverings can be used (e.g., frequency of laundering, guidance on when to replace, circumstances when they can be worn in the facility, importance of proper hand washing). For more information on face coverings and the Local Health Officer Directive, visit www.kingcounty.gov/masks.
                        






                                3. Gloves
                                






Put on clean, non-sterile gloves upon entry into a client care area or shared area. 
Change gloves if they become torn or heavily contaminated.
Remove and discard gloves when leaving the care area, and immediately perform hand hygiene (hand washing).








                                4. Eye protection
                                






Put on eye protection (i.e., goggles or a disposable face shield that covers the front and sides of the face) upon entry to the client care area or shared area, if not already wearing as part of extended use or reuse strategies to optimize PPE supply. Personal eyeglasses and contact lenses are NOT considered adequate eye protection. 
Remove eye protection before leaving the care area or shared area. 
 Reusable eye protection (e.g., goggles) must be cleaned and disinfected according to manufacturer's reprocessing instructions prior to re-use. Disposable eye protection should be discarded after use unless following protocols for extended use or reuse.








                                5. Gowns
                                






Put on a clean isolation gown upon entry into the client care area or shared area. Change the gown if it becomes soiled. Remove and discard the gown in a dedicated container for waste or linen before leaving the care area. Disposable gowns should be discarded after use. Cloth gowns should be laundered after each use.


If there are shortages of gowns, they should be prioritized for: 

aerosol generating procedures 
care activities where splashes and sprays are anticipated
high-contact client care activities that provide opportunities for transfer of pathogens to the hands and clothing of a provider. Examples include: 
   
de-escalation, especially if client is spitting or thrashing
restraining a client
giving injections
assisting clients with CPAPs
dressing
bathing/showering
providing hygiene
changing linens
changing briefs or assisting with toileting
device care or use
wound care 





Please refer to CDC guidance on Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of Isolation Gowns for appropriate strategies depending on your organization's supply of isolation gowns.







                                6. PPE for Code Gray
                                





For providers on a Code Gray (de-escalation) team, we recommend you consider wearing full PPE (masks, gloves, eye protection and gowns) at all times in client areas to be prepared for situations where you will be in close contact with clients and/or have additional staff help with de-escalation from a distance of more than 6ft while directly involved staff don PPE.








Face covering directive
The Local Health Officer Directive strongly urges all King County residents to wear face coverings in most public spaces. To reduce spread of COVID-19 in behavioral health settings, facilities should implement the face covering directive recommending everyone entering an agency, clinic, or facility wear a cloth face covering (if able to) while in the building, regardless of symptoms. This Directive may provide some challenges to behavioral health settings and these facilities are encouraged to use their best clinical judgement when implementing the Directive.
If someone is unable to wear a cloth face covering for a variety of reasons, they are exempt from the Directive. Examples of exemptions are: 

Children ages 2-12 should only wear a face covering if a parent or caregiver supervises 
Anyone with a disability that makes it hard for them to wear or remove a face covering 
Anyone who is deaf and moves their face and mouth to communicate 
Anyone who has been advised by a medical or behavioral health professional to not wear a face covering because of personal health issues 
Anyone who has trouble breathing, is unconscious, or unable to remove the face covering without help 

This Directive strongly encourages King County residents to wear face coverings, but there are no penalties for those who fail to comply. For more information on the Directive, visit www.kingcounty.gov/masks. 
The most important things for facilities to do to protect the health of their clients, employees, and the public is to continue practicing Public Health guidance focusing on maintaining physical distance between clients and providers, excellent hand hygiene, and frequent surface-cleaning.

PPE and face coverings for clients
Clients should wear a medical face mask or cloth face covering while in the agency, clinic, or facility, if tolerated and able. Cloth face coverings are not considered PPE but may help prevent infected individuals from spreading disease. 

Offer clients a medical or cloth face covering on arrival to the facility, if not already wearing one. 
Instruct clients that if they must touch or adjust their face covering, they should wash their hands (or use hand sanitizer) immediately before and after.  If clients are unable to follow these instructions, or wear the face covering properly over their nose and mouth, face coverings are not recommended. 
Do not place face coverings on anyone who is: 

Having trouble breathing
Unconscious, incapacitated or otherwise unable to remove the face covering without assistance 
Significantly uncomfortable or anxious while wearing a face covering 

There is a risk that clients may attempt to use a face covering as ligature. Staff should be aware of this risk and consider how to monitor and reduce risk, including using face covering with elastic ear loops instead of ties and disposing of face covering with ties in secure locations not accessible by clients. 
Clients may remove their face covering when in individual rooms but should put them back on when others (e.g., provider, visitors) enter their room and when leaving their room, especially when visiting shared spaces (e.g. milieu). Efforts should be made to de-densify rooms, if possible, reducing the number of clients per room to one. If clients must share rooms, try to maintain 6 feet of distance between roommates and encourage clients to wear a face covering while in the room together, except when sleeping.
 Screen for symptoms (e.g. fever, dry cough, shortness of breath, chills, myalgias, headache, sore throat, new loss of taste or smell).


 PPE and face coverings for visitors
To the extent possible, we recommend facilities limit visitors. Visitors should wear a medical facemask or cloth face covering while in the agency, clinic, or facility.

Offer visitors a medical facemask or cloth face covering on arrival to the facility, if not already wearing one. 
Instruct visitors that if they must touch or adjust their face covering they should wash their hands (or use hand sanitizer) immediately before and after. 
Do not place face coverings on young children under age 2 years. 

Screen visitors for symptoms (e.g. fever, dry cough, shortness of breath, chills, myalgias, headache, sore throat, new loss of taste or smell, or others). Invite symptomatic visitors to return after their symptoms have resolved. Offer alternative ways for visitors to interact with clients, such as video conferencing.

 Face coverings during meals and breaks
Food and drink are often provided during behavioral health therapy and support group meetings. If snacks must be provided, encourage attendees to eat and drink at one consolidated time during the meeting while maintaining physical distance. Cloth face coverings may be removed during these breaks but encouraged the rest of the meeting. 
Provide soap and water or hand sanitizer before and after meal breaks so that attendees can safely remove and don their face coverings before and after eating.

Additional resources for PPE planning and conservation strategies 

PPE Burn rate calculator, CDC
Conserving PPE, CDC
Conserving PPE, FDA 
Guidance for PPE Conservation and alternatives when PPE is unavailable, PHSKC 
PPE competency checklist, NC SPICE
Standard precautions and PPE checklist, CDC
 






Last Updated June 2, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/support/emergency-food.aspx


Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/support/emergency-food.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Community support and well-being

                       
                Emergency food                        
        









                            Emergency food access resources
                        









Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/emergency-management/special-topics/donations-connector.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Emergency Management



                Special topics

                       
                Regional Donations Connector                        
        









                            King County Regional Donations Connector
                        






Ways to help and get help during COVID-19









Donate money to the COVID-19 response fund
Through the Seattle Foundation

Donate money to the WA Food Fund
Through Philanthropy Northwest










Donate money to nonprofits
King County Employee Giving Program
Sponsor a food box
Through the Rapid Relief Team













Organizations: Offer your help, or make a requestMatch needs with offers from other nonprofit organizations and businesses through the King County Regional Donations Connector.









Volunteer opportunitiesThrough the United Way







What's in need

For the response

AAMI (Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation) Level 2 surgical gowns
N95 masks
Sanitizing wipes

To donate supplies to healthcare facilities and first responders, please email us at donations@kingcounty.gov.


For community-based organizations

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) including masks, gloves, face shields, etc.
Hand sanitizer
Sanitizing wipes
Cleaning supplies
Non-perishable food
Hand-made masks

 To donate supplies to community organizations, please visit the King County Regional Donations Connector.











Find ways to get help





                                For Everyone
                                





COVID-19 Resource Guide
Developed by King County's Office of Equity & Social Justice, this guide includes resources for everyone, including undocumented immigrants, small businesses, the unemployed, and those who need help with housing, utilities, food or cash. Resources are also available in 20 different languages.







                                For Individuals
                                






Food


Emergency food access resources
Safeway Emergency Food Vouchers are available for Seattle families.
During COVID-19 related school closures, students can access free meals.  
Sound Generations offers Meals on Wheels food delivery to older adults who have difficulty shopping or cooking. Call 206-448-5767.
Regional Animal Services of King County's Pet Assistance Program, including mobile pet food banks. 

Healthcare

Washington Health Plan Finder is opening enrollment to qualified individuals until April 8, 2020. Apple Health enrollment is year-round.

Utility bills

 Puget Sound Energy, Seattle Public Utilities, and Seattle City Light will keep utility services on during the COVID-19 outbreak. Customers who have been financially impacted by COVID-19 may receive a waiver of late fees and/or deferred payment plans. Contact your utility for more information.

 Finances

Washington State Employment Security Department has programs designed to help individuals and employers impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak. Learn if you are eligible for, and how to apply, for unemployment benefits.
The Washington State Department of Financial Institutions has developed a list of financial resources for Washington consumers impacted by COVID-19, with information for managing your mortgage, rent, and personal finances.

Other needs

Call 211 or visit the Crisis Connections website if you need help accessing food, social services, or other emergency assistance.

 







                                For Businesses
                                





Unemployment insurance

Washington State Employment Security Department has programs designed to help individuals and employers impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak.

Business continuity and resiliency

Washington Small Business Development Center has a Business Resiliency Guide to help small business owners assess risks and make contingency plans to help recover from the immediate threat of COVID-19 and related long-term disruptions. 
Small businesses in King County are eligible to apply for up to $2 million in low-interest Small Business Administration (SBA) Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDL) to offset economic losses because of reduced revenues caused by impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Apply online.

 







Email: donations@kingcounty.gov
Link to this page: kingcounty.gov/emergency/donate





About these efforts
King County government is working with regional private and public sector organizations to direct donations to agencies in need – and the people they are charged to serve during the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. As the response effort moves into a critical phase, people, businesses and non-profits are searching for an effective means to make sure services, supplies and funding reach health care providers, first responders (e.g. firefighters, law enforcement, medical and healthcare providers), and social service entities working on the front lines.
Toward that end, we have established the King County Regional Donations Connector to serve three purposes:

Provide a system that allows donations and offers of assistance to be used in the response effort.
Provide an online “marketplace” where offering organizations can be matched to those in need.
Provide the public with an easily searchable list of resources.  

Donating individuals, agencies and businesses are invited to share what they have to contribute (i.e. funding, surgical supplies, masks, counseling etc.) and link up with frontline organizations.









                                Thank you for helping
                                






Thank you to the following organizations who have already contributed:

Alaska Airlines - Seattle-Tacoma Int'l Airport (SEA) for donating entertainment tablets for patients at our field sites
A-SHOC Energy Drinks for 47 cases of energy drinks for first responders (for fire stations and the National Guard)
AT&T for 65 phones to distribute to outreach organizations for distribution to homeless individuals
Atoms, Inc. for 14,000 cloth face masks for distribution to Public Health -- Seattle & King County and community health centers
Blue Water Taco Grill  for 40 boxes of lunches for the King County Emergency Management response team
Bouchard, Tom, for 100 face shields 
Brotman Baty Institute for Precision Medicine for 2,000 isolation gowns, 8,800 face shields, and 1,000 nitrile gloves
Coca-Cola for providing ongoing donations of Powerade and water to patients at the Assessment and Recovery Centers and for a donation of 1,900 cases of Powerade to Food Lifeline, as well as 116 cases of soft drinks and smart water 
Couillard, David (Centre Coast) for 18 laser cutter face shields
Coupang for 2,400 N95 respirators
Creator Space for 1,350 ear Savers
DoorDash for providing lunch for 35 of our first responders
Dude Products for 6,000 sanitizer wipes to be distributed by the Department of Community and Human Services to individuals experiencing homelessness
Eastside Fire & Rescue for 35 oxygen masks to support the Assessment and Recovery Centers
Facebook Oculus for 940 face shields
Facebook Seattle for donating more than 85,000 gloves, masks and thermometers
Ford Motor Company for 20,000 face shields 
Fuzell-Casey, Jacquelyn  for 300 FDA-approved latex-free gloves
Garcia, Xander  for 6 boxes of nitrile gloves
Guangdong Shenpu Technology Company Ltd for 4,000 surgical masks 
Harbor Wholesale Foods for 45 cases of nitrile gloves
Heller, Geoffrey for 50 3D print face shields 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for 25,000 surgical masks
King County Library System for e-library cards to people staying at the Assessment and Recovery Centers to stream movies, music, and e-books on the donated tablets
Madison Park, Madrona and Capitol Hill Neighbors bought tulips grown by Hmong Farmers of Pike Place Market for 40 bunches of tulips to brighten the day for workers at the King County Emergency Operations Center
Maker Force for 1,000 ear savers
Nordstrom for 50,000 surgical masks
Pacific Market International for 48,000  surgical masks
Pacific Science Center for donating 1,000 masks and 800 gloves
Paolini, Monica for 100 surgical masks and 15 KN95 masks
PDX Hackerspace for 100 face shields, the first shipment of several hundred anticipated, and 2,970 ear savers, and 70 NIH-approved Budmen Face Shields
Pete's Milk Delivery for 220 cases (12 cans @ 12 oz each case) of Olipop, a prebiotic drink
Port of Seattle for donating over 8,300 N95 respirators 
Provide Now for 4,000 gloves, 600 masks, 247 two-ounce containers of hand sanitizer, 168 one-ounce containers hand sanitizer, along with tents, tarps, socks, underwear, wool blankets, sleeping bags, toiletries and cleaning supplies 
Rapid Relief Team for donating 525 food buckets (equivalent of 2,100 meals) to Rainier Valley Food Bank and Mary's Place
SCGC Capital, Inc. (coordinated by Li Li), Inspur USA, Inc. (coordinated by Joe Jin), Mei-Yea Liao and the Gates Foundation for buying 770 tablets and charging stations to provide telehealth services for our Assessment and Recovery Centers
Seattle Entrepreneurship Club for 2,000 N95 masks
Seattle Municipal Court for 6,500 nitrile gloves
See's Candies for a variety of chocolates and goodies for staff at the Emergency Operations Center 
Starbucks for twice daily coffee and pastries deliveries to the Assessment and Recovery Centers (total of 192 coffee travelers and 1200 pastries)
SYL Foundation for 5,000 disposable surgical masks and 100 protective gowns
Taiwanese Government for 10,500 surgical masks 
Tesla Stem High School for 400 face shields
Tito's Handmade Vodka for 450 gallons of hand sanitizer with two pumps and one pallet of 375 ml. bottles, along with 2,100 KN95 masks, 2,400 nitrile gloves and 100 spare empty bottles, along with 1 pallet of small bottles and 2 pallets of gallon-sized sanitizer (1,000 small bottles are reserved for the Urban League). And for an additional donation of more than 300 gallons of sanitizer for distribution to community-based organizations.
UberEats for transporting the Starbucks coffee and pastries to the Assessment and Recovery Centers, providing 2,000 promo codes up to $25 to  Assessment and Recovery Centers for staff and patients, 75 promo codes up to $25 for Friends of the Children Seattle, and food distribution from Tukwila Food Pantry to area households for two weeks. 
UFCW21 for 420 N95 respirators, 3 P95 One Step, 1,000 surgical masks, 150 other masks, 9,200 exam gloves and 100 sterile alcohol pads
University of Washington Department of Chemistry for 50 boxes of nitrile gloves
Washington City Light for 280 disposable gowns and 50 KN95 respirators
Washington Lions District 19-B for 240 gal. of hand sanitizer
We Got This Seattle for hot meals to all staff and residents at the Assessment and Recovery Centers:
    
Shoreline: 120 total meals (3 days for 40 staff) for 1.5 weeks
Kent: 50 total meals (2 days for 25 staff) for 1 week


Wildwood Spirits Co. for 75 gallons of hand sanitizer 
Xander Garcia for 6 boxes of nitrile gloves









                                More information
                                





Who is the Connector for?

Private and public entities with something to donate
Community and faith-based organizations with specific needs
The general public who wants to help in practical ways

What types of donations are allowed?

Funding 
Food - Contact your local food bank.
Non-perishable goods
    
Medical supplies
Sanitary supplies


Facility space
Services
    
Counseling (legal, mental health, etc.)
Labor
Janitorial
Catering
Event planning 



What's not included?
Volunteers. Please visit United Way or other local volunteer organizations for opportunities to service your community.







                                Related resources
                                





Public Health-Seattle & King County updates
To learn about the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), get latest updates regarding the regional response, and access specific recommendations and guidelines, visit kingcounty.gov/covid.
King County call center
If you are a King County resident and have symptoms of COVID-19 or questions, call 206-477-3977. This helpline is open daily from 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. and operators are able to connect with a third-party interpreter.
Washington State call center
If you have questions about how the virus is spread and what to do if you have symptoms, call 800-525-0127 and press #. This helpline is open daily from 6 a.m. - 10 p.m.


















King County Emergency Management

3511 NE Second St.
Renton, WA 98056


Get directions










ecc.kc@kingcounty.gov







206-296-3830
Toll Free 1-800-523-5044







TTY Relay 711











King County Emergency News

















Last Updated March 23, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/support/presentation-requests.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Community support and well-being

                       
                Community presentation requests                        
        









                            Community presentation requests
                        





It is crucial that we all stay informed on the latest information regarding COVID-19. The Speaker's Bureau provides presentations with the latest information, resources, and guidance's for COVID-19 to the community. We strive to provide culturally relevant presentations and provide answers that your community, business, or organization is looking for. Our goal is to ensure that all communities in King County have the knowledge they need to stay safe and healthy during this time.







Presentation topics
We can work with you to provide your organization with a presentation about COVID-19 and any relevant topics that your community is looking for. We can provide presentation for any type of organization. In the past we have worked with community-based organizations, faith-based organizations, businesses (large and small), and local and state government to provide webinars on various topics related to COVID-19 including:

Latest COVID-19 information and guidance

Public Charge for immigrant and refugee communities 

COVID-19 information for social workers 

Children's health 

School and education

Food banks

Townhall presentations

And more

If your topic isn't listed above, do not hesitate to ask. We are also able to provide presentations in various languages.
If you do not have an online platform to use for your webinar, we will be able to provide one for you. Currently the County is using Zoom for the majority of its webinars given Zoom’s greater accessibility. We will be able to create a Zoom link for your webinar and provide tech support. This service is only reserved for organizations that do not have access to an online platform. Please ask us if you need this service.


Submit a request for a presentation





   Open and complete the online request form 



About you (Your information will not be shared):










FIRST NAME





LAST NAME





AGENCY/COMPANY




 Phone with area code





 Email




STREET ADDRESS







CITY





STATE





ZIP CODE





COUNTY


Let us know about your needs:

When do you need your webinar?
Please allow at least 5 business days advanced notice to allow us to prepare:



What concerns does your group want to address? 





What might be key topic areas you want covered during this time? 





Has your audience had a COVID-19 webinar before? 




                      Yes. 
                      If so, please describe:








                    No. 



How many people do you anticipate being on the call?



Submit Request













In the wake of COVID-19, there has been a lot of information and myths circulating. We want to make sure our community has relevant information and resources. The Speakers Bureau enjoys creating welcoming, safe, and engaging virtual and phone spaces for all people to discuss the resources and information made available. We are passionate about supporting the health, safety, and recovery of ALL people in King County."

 Debra Baker, Speaker's Bureau Lead 








Recurring webinars
We hold regular webinars with various groups to provide updated information about COVID-19. Check back to see new weekly or biweekly webinars we will add soon.
Spanish webinar series
Every Tuesday at 5:30pm. Please email Gurdeep Gill and ggill@kingcounty.gov for a Zoom link. 
The purpose of the call is to facilitate a conversation between community members and Public Health — Seattle & King County. This is an opportunity for Public Health to hear from trusted community advocates and to provide resources about COVID-19 prevention as well as tools on how to deal with the stay-at-home order. The calls are coordinated by native Spanish speakers who are familiar with the culture and are established community members as well as public servants. 






Penny Lara
 Latinx Community Response Team

Giselle Zapata-Garcia
Latinx Community Response Team



During these challenging and uncertain times, it is imperative to establish connections with all communities, but especially communities who historically the system has failed to serve.
Right now, immigrant communities are facing so many additional uncertainties, so it is our duty to eliminate language barriers and provide crucial information in culturally relevant and accessible ways.

    In the long run, this investment can save lives and will result in a thriving and healthier community." 

 Penny Lara and Giselle Zapata-Garcia, Co-Leads of the Latinx Community Response Team. 






Last Updated July 5, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care/posters.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Symptoms, testing and care

                       
                Signs to print and post                        
        









                            Downloadable signs to print and post 
                        

                                Minimize risk of COVID-19: Resources for grocery stores, restaurants, childcares and apartment buildings
                            





The intention of these resources is to help establishments communicate with their customers and staff the steps they are taking to minimize the risk of COVID-19.









                                Posters for reopening businesses
                                








Reopening business poster for customers: Prevent the spread of COVID-19
Amharic
Arabic
Chinese, Simplified
Chinese, Traditional
French
Khmer
Korean
Marshallese
Oromo
Russian
Somali
Spanish
Thai
Tigrinya
Ukrainian
Vietnamese



Reopening business poster for staff: Workplace requirements during COVID-19
Amharic
Arabic
Chinese, Simplified
Chinese, Traditional
French
Khmer
Korean
Marshallese
Oromo
Russian
Somali
Spanish
Thai
Tigrinya
Ukrainian
Vietnamese









                                Posters for families and staff at child care facilities
                                








Poster for families at childcare centers



Amharic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional

Russian 




Somali 

Spanish 

Vietnamese 






Poster for childcare center staff



Amharic

Chinese, Simplfied

Chinese, Traditional 

Korean

Russian




Somali 

Spanish 

Ukrainian 

Vietnamese












                                Posters for event attendees and staff
                                








Poster event attendees



Poster for event staff









                                Posters for grocery store shoppers and staff
                                








Poster for grocery store shoppers



Amharic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional 

Khmer 

Korean 

Marshallese

Russian 




Samoan 

Somali 

Spanish

Thai

Tongan

Vietnamese






Poster for grocery store staff



Amharic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional

Korean

Marshallese

Russian




Samoan 

Somali 

Spanish 

Thai 

Tongan 

Vietnamese












                                Posters to protect one another and coworkers
                                








Please protect one another from COVID-19



Please protect yourself and
      coworkers from COVID-19



Do's and Don'ts of face coverings during COVID-19









                                Posters for residents and their visitors at residential communities
                                








Poster for visitors at residential communities



Amharic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional 

Khmer 

Marshallese




Russian 

Samoan 

Somali 

Spanish 

Tongan






Poster for residents in housing communities



Amharic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional 

Khmer 

Marshallese




Russian 

Samoan

Somali 

Spanish 

Tongan












                                Posters for restaurant customers and staff
                                








Poster for restaurant customers



Amharic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional

Korean




Russian

Somali

Spanish

Vietnamese




Poster for restaurant staff



Amharic

Chinese, Simplified

Chinese, Traditional

Korean




Russian

Somali

Spanish

Vietnamese














Last Updated June 25, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care/testing.aspx


Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care/testing.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Symptoms, testing and care

                       
                COVID-19 testing                        
        









                            COVID-19 testing
                        

                                Protect your family. Protect your friends. Protect your community.
                            





Testing for COVID-19 is an essential tool for stopping the spread of the disease and reopening Seattle and King County.

 Free testing is available in King County regardless of immigration status. Find a testing site near you. 





1. Who should get tested for COVID-19?





Anyone with these symptoms should contact a healthcare provider or a testing site to discuss the need for testing:

Fever or chills
Cough
Shortness of breath, difficulty breathing
Fatigue
Muscle or body aches, headache
Loss of taste or smell
Sore throat
Congestion or runny nose
Nausea or vomiting
Diarrhea




Anyone who has had close contact for more than 15 minutes with someone who has the virus. 

If you think you have COVID-19 or have been exposed to someone who does, STAY AWAY FROM OTHERS AND GET TESTED.









2. How can I get tested?


If you don’t have a doctor, call the King County COVID-19 Call Center at 206-477-3977 for assistance. The center is open from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. If you need an interpreter, say the name of your language.
If you have a doctor or healthcare provider, call them to get a test.






3. Can I get tested if I don’t have medical insurance or a doctor? 




Yes. Free or low-cost testing is available at several King County locations regardless of immigration status. Multiple languages are spoken and phone interpretation is available at each site.
Testing locations currently available include the following. Testing may also be available in other locations. This list will be updated weekly. To schedule an appointment, call:

Kent Urgent Care, 253-372-3602 (Spanish)
HealthPoint Renton, 425-277-1311 (Spanish, Russian)
Neighborcare Health, North Seattle, 206-296-4990 (Amharic, Somali, Spanish, Tagalog,  Vietnamese)
Neighborcare Health, South Seattle, 206-722-8444 (Amharic, Arabic, Cham, French, Malay, Somali, Spanish, Tagalog, Tigrinya, Vietnamese)
Neighborcare Health, West Seattle, 206-461-6950 (Amharic, Arabic, Cambodian, Oromo, Russian, Somali, Spanish, Ukrainian)
Neighborcare Health, Vashon Island, 206-463-3671  
Sea Mar Community Health Center, Federal Way, 253-681-6600 (Korean, Spanish)
SODO (South Seattle), 206-684-2489, (Interpretation available)
UW Mobile Clinic, Rainier Beach, 206-744-0400 (Wed and Sat, 10am-3pm; no appointment necessary)
UW Mobile Clinic, South Seattle College, 206-744-0400 (Fri, 10am-3pm; no appointment necessary)
Washington State Vehicle Emission Check Program Station 4, 206-684-2489, (Interpretation available, starts June 8th)







4. Why is testing important?




If you know you have COVID-19, you can protect your family, friends and community from getting the virus by keeping apart from others. The sooner you get tested, the better.






5. What happens when you get tested?


The test requires a simple swab of the nose or throat. Your doctor or test center will send the swab to a lab for processing, which can take several days.






6. Do I need to stay away from others while I await test results?


Yes. You should keep apart from others, even in your household as much as possible. Stay away from others, even if you are not showing symptoms, because the virus can spread before symptoms appear. If you have no safe place to stay apart from others, King County can help. Call the COVID-19 Call Center at 206-477-3977. The line is open from 8 a.m. until 10 p.m.






7. What do I do if I receive a positive result?


You must stay away from other people until you are better. Use a separate bedroom and bathroom, if possible. If not, stay at least six feet apart from others while sleeping or talking. If you have no safe place to stay apart from others, call the county’s Covid-19 Call Center at 206-477-3977. The line is open from 8 a.m. until 10 p.m.






8. If I have a negative test but have been close to someone with the virus, do I need to quarantine?


Yes. If you have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19, stay away from others for 14 days. It can take up to two weeks for symptoms to appear. 






9. When will I get my test results?


It can take several days to receive test results, and times will vary depending on which lab is processing your test. You will receive notification from your health care provider or tester as soon as the results are available.






10. Will I be contacted by the health department if I test positive?


You might receive a call from state or county health officials if you test positive. The caller will help figure out if you have exposed family, friends or co-workers to the virus. They will not ask about your immigration status, social security number or finances. Any information they collect will only be shared with public health professionals who are working to contain the virus. The caller can also help connect you to any support you might need.


Additional resources

Public Health's "Symptoms, testing and care" resources
What to do if you have confirmed or suspected COVID-19 factsheet (WA-DOH) 
Healthcare providers guidelines for testing


 Link/share our site at www.kingcounty.gov/covid/testing



Feeling sick? Get tested for COVID-19 if you have any of these symptoms:

Fever or chills

Cough

Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing

Fatigue

Muscle or body aches

Headache

New loss of taste or smell

Sore throat

Congestion or runny nose

Nausea or vomiting

Diarrhea



What you need to know about
COVID-19 testing


Open access testing sites (PDF)





Last Updated May 29, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care/testing/locations.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Symptoms, testing and care



                COVID-19 testing

                       
                Testing locations                        
        









                            Free COVID-19 testing locations 
                        





The following locations provide free COVID-19 testing – regardless of immigration or insurance status. They are open to anyone who cannot access a COVID-19 test through their regular healthcare provider. Most sites are non-profit Community Health Centers.

Language interpretation services are available at all locations at no cost

For more information please call the King County COVID-19 Call Center (open 7 days a week, 8 AM – 7 PM), at 206-477-3977.
Testing sites may change and new ones may open. This list is not a complete list of all testing locations. It may not include the most up-to-date locations or contact information.
Sites have limited hours. Please contact the site directly for hours or to make an appointment. Don't wait – it's important to get tested right away.
This map shows testing locations that are open to anyone.
The list of locations is also available in PDF format 
Updates to the schedules in the following languages are forthcoming: Arabic, Chinese, Traditional, Filipino/Tagalog, Khmer, Russian, Spanish, Vietnamese









                                Auburn
                                






HealthPoint Auburn
126 Auburn Ave, Auburn, WA 98002
    Phone: (866) 893-5717
    Languages: Russian, Spanish, Ukrainian; interpretation available


UW Mobile Clinic at Auburn City Adventist Church 
    Available on Tuesdays, 9:00 am to 3:00 pm
402 29th St. SE Auburn, WA 98002
    Phone: (206) 744-0400
  Languages: Interpretation available








                                Bellevue
                                






Sea Mar Community Health Centers, Bellevue
3801 150th Ave SE, Bellevue, WA 98006
Phone: (425) 460-7140
Languages: Spanish; interpretation available









                                Duvall
                                






Duvall Family Health Mart
15602 Main St NE, Duvall, WA 98019
    Phone: (425) 788-2644
    No interpretation available
  Make an appointment online and learn more about this location 








                                Federal Way
                                






Sea Mar Community Health Centers, Federal Way
31405 18th Ave S, Federal Way, WA 98003
    Phone: (253) 681-6600
    Languages: Korean, Spanish; interpretation available








                                Kent
                                






HealthPoint at Kent Urgent Care
219 State Ave N. (#100) Kent, WA 98030
    Phone: (253) 372-3602
    Languages: Spanish; interpretation available


Sea Mar Community Health Centers, Kent
233 2nd Ave S, Kent, WA 98032
Phone: (206) 436-6380
Languages: Spanish, Interpretation available


UW Mobile Clinic at Kent Public Health
25742 104th Ave SE, Kent, WA 98030
    Phone: (206) 744-0400
    Languages: Interpretation available
    
    Available Thursdays, 10am - 3pm, no appointment necessary
  








                                Renton
                                






HealthPoint at Renton Administration Office
955 Powell Ave SW, Renton, WA 98057
    Phone: (866) 893-5717
    Languages: Spanish; interpretation available








                                Seattle
                                






City of Seattle at Aurora (North Seattle)
Make reservations online

 12040 Aurora Ave N., Seattle, WA 98133
 Phone: (206) 684-2489
 Languages: Interpretation available
 


City of Seattle at SODO (South Seattle)
Make reservations online

 3820 6th Ave S., Seattle, WA 98108
  Phone: (206) 684-2489
  Available, Mon.-Sat., 10am - 3 pm
  
  Languages: Interpretation available


Downtown Public Health Center 
  No appointment necessary

2124 4th Ave., Seattle, WA 98121 (behind building)
Phone: (206) 477-8300
Languages: Interpretation available




Neighborcare Health at Meridian (North Seattle)
10521 Meridian Ave N., Seattle, WA 98133
   Phone: (206) 296-4990
   Languages: Amharic, Somali, Spanish, Tagalog, Vietnamese; interpretation available


Neighborcare Health at Rainier Beach (South Seattle)
9245 Rainier Ave S. 2nd Floor, Seattle, WA 98118
  Phone: (206) 722-8444
  Languages: Amharic, Arabic, Cham, French, Malay, Somali, Spanish, Tagalog, Tigrinya, Vietnamese; interpretation available


Neighborcare Health at High Point (West Seattle)
6020 35th Ave SW, 1st Floor, Seattle, WA 98126
Phone: (206) 461-6950
Languages: Amharic, Arabic, Cambodian, Oromo, Russian, Somali, Spanish, Ukrainian; interpretation available


Sea Mar Community Health Centers at South Park
8720 14th Ave S, Seattle, WA 98108
Phone: (253) 681-6600
Languages: Spanish, Interpretation available


Sea Mar Community Health Centers at White Center
9650 15th Ave SW #100, Seattle, WA 98106
Phone: (206) 965-1000
Languages: Spanish, Interpretation available


UW Mobile Clinic at Rainier Beach High School
8815 Seward Park Ave S, Seattle, WA 98118
Phone: (206) 744-0400
(Open Wed. and Sat., 10am-3pm, no appointment necessary)
Languages: Interpretation available


UW Mobile Clinic at South Seattle College
6000 16th Ave SW, Seattle, WA 98106
Phone: (206) 744-0400
(Open Fri., 10am-3pm, no appointment necessary)
Languages: Interpretation available








                                Vashon Island
                                






Neighborcare Health, Vashon Island
10030 SW 210th St, Vashon Island, WA 98070
    Phone: (206) 463-3671
  Languages: Interpretation available


Vashon BePrepared
    (Call for an appointment)
    Phone: (844) 469-4554
  Languages: Spanish interpretation available
Learn more about this location 








                                Greater Seattle Coronavirus Assessment Network (SCAN)
                                





The Greater Seattle Coronavirus Assessment Network (SCAN) study is working to understand how COVID-19 is spreading throughout King County, and offers free, confidential, at-home tests. Enroll at scanpublichealth.org/screener.









 Link/share our site at www.kingcounty.gov/covid/sites





Last Updated July 1, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care/masks.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Symptoms, testing and care

                       
                Face coverings                        
        









                            Statewide requirement to wear face coverings
                        






Updated July 7, 2020: 
Effective July 7, the Governor's Statewide face covering order directs businesses to require and enforce the use of face coverings by all customers and clients.





Face coverings are required in all public indoor spaces, and outdoors when you cannot remain 6 feet apart.
The Washington State Department of Health has issued a statewide order requiring individuals to wear a face covering in indoor public spaces such as stores, offices and restaurants. The order also requires face coverings outdoors when you can't stay 6 feet apart from others.
A face covering is not needed when you are outside walking, exercising, or otherwise outdoors if you are able to regularly stay 6 feet away from other people who do not live with you.
Use cloth face coverings. Do not use medical masks.
 Instructions on making cloth masks


Frequently Asked Questions



Read the text of the video script (PDF)




Wear fabric face coverings, such as cloth face masks, scarves, and bandanas. The face covering must fit over your nose and mouth. 
  It is important to save medical-grade surgical masks and N95 respirators for healthcare workers and people who have special health needs. 
To protect yourself, wear face coverings properly.

Your mask should cover your nose and mouth at all times. 
Always wash your hands with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer before you put on a face covering and after removing it. 
Change your face covering when it gets moist. 
Wash your face covering after each use. 

Some people do not need to follow this directive, including:

Babies and toddlers under age 2 should never wear cloth face coverings. Children ages 2-4 are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering.
All children ages 5 years & up should wear a face covering unless medically directed to do otherwise.
Anyone with a disability that makes it hard for them to wear or remove a face covering.
Anyone who is deaf and moves their face and mouth to communicate.
Anyone who has been advised by a medical professional to not wear a face covering because of personal health issues.
Anyone who has trouble breathing, is unconscious, or unable to remove the face covering without help.

Why is wearing a face covering important?
Cloth face coverings protect other people from getting COVID-19 from us when we talk, cough or sneeze. Between 20-40 percent of people with COVID-19 don't show any symptoms but can still spread the virus to others. Recent research suggests wearing a face covering can significantly reduce the incidence of COVID-19. Until a vaccine or cure is developed, face coverings will be our best defense.
REMEMBER: Staying home is still the safest way to prevent spreading COVID-19. When out, wear your face covering, stay 6 feet apart from others, wash your hands frequently, and stay local.
Requirements for businesses and employers:

The Department of Labor & Industries requires employers to provide at no cost appropriate face coverings or masks that must be worn by all employees who don't work alone.
Businesses are required to post signage advising individuals to wear face coverings on the premises. Businesses can download a sign that can be used for this purpose from the right column of this page.

Effective July 7, the Governor's statewide order directs businesses to require and enforce the use of face coverings by all customers or clients. More information about enforcing this face covering order is available from the State Department of Health 






Please protect one another from COVID-19
For Deaf, Hard of Hearing, and Blind Community Members
Amharic
Chinese, Traditional
Khmer
Korean
Russian
Somali
Spanish
Vietnamese



Which face covering should you wear?
Amharic
Chinese, Traditional
Korean
Russian
Somali
Spanish
Vietnamese





Do's and Don'ts of face coverings during COVID-19



Some people may not be able to wear face coverings












 Link/share our site at www.kingcounty.gov/masks





Last Updated July 7, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care/self-care.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Symptoms, testing and care

                       
                How to care for yourself or others                        
        









                            How to care for yourself or others with COVID-19
                        









 This page is also in PDF format



 Link/share this page at: www.kingcounty.gov/covid/self-care










Most people with COVID-19 have milder illness and are able to recover at home without medical care. Follow these steps if you or someone in your household has symptoms of COVID-19. Symptoms include cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever, chills, muscle pain, sore throat, or a new loss of taste or smell. This list is not all possible symptoms.
Symptoms include cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing; or at least two of the following: fever, chills, repeated shaking with chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, or a new loss of taste or smell. This list is not all inclusive.




Seek medical advice, if needed

Connect by phone with your healthcare provider or a nurse consulting line, especially if the sick person is age 60 or older or is at risk for severe illness because of a medical condition (examples: diabetes, heart disease, lung disease, or a weakened immune system). If you do not have a healthcare provider, call the King County COVID-19 call center between 8 AM – 7 PM at 206-477-3977.


Pay attention to the symptoms. If the symptoms get worse, call a healthcare provider for guidance. 


Watch for emergency signs. Call 9-1-1 if the sick person has:

Trouble breathing
Persistent pain or pressure in the chest
Unusual feelings of confusion or not able to respond
Lips or face have a blue or purple tint



Need help finding a doctor or getting health insurance? Call the Community Health Access Program (CHAP): 1 (800) 756-5437 or the Help Me Grow Washington Hotline: 1 (800) 322-2588.
Provide comfort

Choose one person in the household to be the main caretaker. 
Make sure the sick person gets plenty of rest.
Use over-the-counter medication for fever, sore throat and general discomfort. Follow instructions from your healthcare provider.

Prevent dehydration
Encourage the sick person to drink liquids (water, broth, herbal tea, juice, etc.).

Offer small amounts of fluid frequently, even if they do not feel thirsty.
If the sick person is not eating solid food, give fluids that contain sugars and salts, such as Pedialyte® or Lytren® (undiluted), broth, or  sports drinks (diluted half and half with water).

Make sure the sick person avoids drinking alcohol, caffeinated, or diet drinks.  Do not use tobacco.
Watch for signs of dehydration
Someone who is dehydrated may:

Be weak or unresponsive (if someone is unresponsive, call 9-1-1)
Have a dry mouth and tongue
Produce less urine, which becomes dark in color.

Check for dehydration

Gently pinch layers of skin between your thumb and forefinger for 1 second (best done on the belly skin of a child and on the upper chest of an adult).
Normally, the skin will flatten out into to its usual shape right away. If sick person is dehydrated, the skin will "tent" or take 2 or more seconds to flatten out.

If the sick person is dehydrated:

Give plenty of fluid through frequent sips or spoonfuls over a 4-hour period. 
Watch for an increase in urination and a lighter color of the urine.
Call a healthcare provider if dehydration worsens.

Prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the home
Anyone ill should: 

Stay home, except to get medical care. 
Call ahead before visiting your doctor.
Use a separate bedroom and bathroom if possible. If that's not an option, try to stay at least 6 feet apart from each other when you're sleeping and interacting 

Caregivers should:

Wear a cloth face mask and gloves when providing care, if available. Cloth face masks should be worn by the sick person and caregiver when in close contact. Bandanas or other cloth that covers the mouth and nose can serve as masks.
Clean surfaces throughout the home daily. Use soap and water or other household cleaners, then use a disinfectant. If you don't have a disinfectant, a paper towel dipped in 60% or greater isopropyl alcohol will kill the virus. 
Wash laundry thoroughly. Keep the laundry away from your body. Wash your hands immediately after handling laundry.

Everyone in the household should:

Cover coughs and sneezes.
Clean hands thoroughly and often. Wash with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.
Avoid sharing personal household items (dishes, towels, bedding, etc.).

Support for stress and anxiety
If you are sick with COVID-19 or caring for someone who is sick, it can be stressful and worrisome. When talking to your doctor, talk about your anxieties to get support. You can also call the King County 24-Hour Crisis Line at 1-866-427-4747 for professional services and support.
For more information

What to Do if You Are Sick, CDC

What to do when you or your child gets COVID-19, Public Health - Seattle & King County






Last Updated May 4, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care/for-parents.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Symptoms, testing and care

                       
                For parents and guardians                        
        









                            For parents and guardians
                        

                                What to do when you or your child gets COVID-19
                            









 This page is also in PDF format



 Link/share this page: www.kingcounty.gov/covid/parents


Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C)



This info is also  available in
Amharic, Chinese-Traditional, Hindi, Khmer, Russian, Somali, Spanish and Vietnamese

Most children who are sick with COVID-19 will have mild  cases. However, some children and youth may develop a rare complication that  can impact young people who have had COVID-19. It is called Multisystem  Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C). Children/youth who develop this will  need to be hospitalized for treatment. Not all children who develop MIS-C will  have had symptoms of COVID-19, and some may have had symptoms weeks earlier.
While rare, it is important that parents and caregivers know to look for the following symptoms: 

Persistent fever lasting longer than 24 hours

Exhaustion, feeling very tired

Stomach pain

Diarrhea

Nausea

Rash

Conjunctivitis (red or bloodshot eyes)

Neck pain

Contact your doctor right away if your child has any of these symptoms.
If your child has the following severe symptoms, seek emergency  care:

Trouble breathing

Chest pain or pressure

Bluish lips or face 

Severe abdominal pain

Confusion

Inability to stay awake or wake up

If you don’t have a doctor, contact the Community Health Access Program (CHAP) to find a dentist, doctor or nurse and quality health care you can afford. It’s a free service and interpreters are available.

Phone: 1-800-756-5437

Email: CHAP@kingcounty.gov

Web: www.kingcounty.gov/CHAP

Learn more from the CDC including information translated into Spanish, Korean, Vietnamese and Chinese. 


When your child's sick, you're their nurturer, playmate, and live-in nurse all wrapped up into one person. But novel coronavirus (COVID-19) challenges us in new ways. Though usually mild in kids, COVID-19 can be serious for some adults. And that means it's especially important that you protect your own health. Here are some concrete steps you can take to keep your household healthy and to respond if you or your child gets sick.










                                1. Are kids at risk of catching COVID-19?
                                





Children can get COVID-19, but here’s the good news: most kids will only have minor symptoms similar to the common cold. You might notice a cough, runny nose, sore throat, or fever. Vomiting and diarrhea are possible, but rarer. And some kids might not have any symptoms at all.
There's a lot we’re still learning about COVID-19, like whether kids with underlying medical conditions or special healthcare needs are at higher risk. Medical and public health experts are working around the clock to learn as much as they can.








                                2. How can I protect my family from COVID-19?
                                





Take these important steps to prevent COVID-19 infection. If someone in your home gets sick, keep up these behaviors:

Practice  social distancing. Social distancing means  increasing the space between people to avoid illness. Stay home as much as you  can, and postpone playdates. Limit trips for groceries, gas, and other household  needs. If you have to go out, stay at least 6 feet away from other people. And  be certain to avoid contact with sick people. You won't need to social distance  forever, but it's one of the best things we can do right now to stop the spread  of COVID-19.


Wash your  hands, wash your hands, wash your hands. And then do it again. Scrubbing  with warm soap and water for 20 seconds destroys COVID-19. If you  can't make it to the sink right away, use hand sanitizer with at least 60%  alcohol. Keep sanitizer away from kids under age two.


Avoid  touching your face,  food, and shared objects with unwashed hands.








                                3. What should I do if my child gets COVID-19?
                                





You can take steps to minimize your own risk of infection while still meeting your child’s basic needs.
Designate a caretaker

Choose  one person in the household to be the primary caretaker for your child.


Keep  other household members away as much as possible.


Do not  invite any unnecessary visitors.


Look  out for symptoms in all household members. If anyone develops symptoms, contact  a doctor. 

Seek medical advice, if needed

Call your  child's doctor or set up an online visit. Your doctor knows your child's  health history and whether they have any special risks.


Pay  attention to your child's symptoms. Your child might need medical attention  if they develop signs of more severe illness. Look out for fast breathing,  fever that doesn't respond to fever-reducing medicine, or signs of dehydration  (like peeing less than normal). Call 911 if your child has trouble breathing,  persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion, or bluish lips or  face.


Need  help finding a doctor or getting health insurance? Call the Community  Health Access Program (CHAP): 1 (800) 756-5437 or the Help  Me Grow Washington Hotline: 1 (800) 322-2588.
    


Treat the symptoms

Keep your child hydrated. Make sure they drink a lot of fluids.


Consider  over-the-counter medication for symptom relief. Talk with your child's doctor about the correct medication and dose.

Create physical distance

Use a  separate bedroom and bathroom, if at all possible. If that's not an option,  try to stay at least 6 feet apart from each other when you're sleeping and interacting.  This gets tough when you have small children who need diaper changes, help with  feeding, and nighttime tuck-ins. Do what's realistic for your household.


Make sure  that shared spaces have good airflow. Open a window or turn on an air  conditioner.


Avoid contact with pets. Ask your child to postpone petting, snuggling,  and getting kissed or licked.

Clean and disinfect

Clean  and disinfect all “high-touch” surfaces every day. Clean  surfaces like counters, doorknobs, bathrooms, diaper changing tables, toys, and  crib railings. Be sure to disinfect any  surfaces that may have blood, stool or body fluids on them. Pay special  attention to shared bathrooms. If someone in your family has asthma, take precautions while cleaning to lower the risk of asthma attacks.


Wash laundry thoroughly. Wear disposable gloves if you have them, and keep the laundry away  from your body. Wash your hands immediately after handling laundry, even if you  wore gloves.


Teach  your kids to be germ busters. Show them fun ways to wash their hands.  Ask them to cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue, and then throw the used  tissue in the trash. 

Take other precautions

Avoid  sharing personal items. Be sure your family members don't share dishes,  drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels, or bedding with other people  or pets in your home. Make sure to thoroughly wash and dry items that your child  has handled before others use them.


Use  a mask, if possible. If  your child's old enough to keep a mask on and you have one handy, ask them to  wear it around other people. If that's not doable, consider wearing a mask when  you're within six feet of each other. Keep in mind: there's a critical  shortage of medical equipment right now, so only buy what you need.  If you don't have a mask, consider using a scarf or bandana. 

See our resources on face coverings.








                                4. I’m at higher risk for serious illness. What should I do if my child gets COVID-19?
                                






If possible, rely on another adult in the household for childcare responsibilities.


If you're on your own, do your best to social distance and disinfect. First, remember: this is temporary. If you can, wear a mask and have your child wear a mask. Find creative ways to keep your child entertained from a safe distance and to show your love.


Depending on your circumstances, consider staying somewhere else. If another adult in the household can care for your sick child, and the option is available to you, consider staying with a trusted family member or friend. (See text box in question #5 below.)


If you interacted closely with your child in the two days before they were ill or while they were ill, follow precautions in case you were infected. Stay away from others as much as possible for 14 days.


Pay attention to your health and call your doctor if you develop symptoms.


Every family's situation is unique. Consider how best to care for your children while also protecting your health.

Learn more from the CDC: People who are at higher risk for severe illness







                                5. What about if I’m the one to get COVID-19?
                                







If you get COVID-19 and the rest of your household is not sick, take these steps: 

Follow the recommendations above (under "What should I do if my child gets COVID-19") – they apply to adults too.


If possible, rely on another adult in the household for childcare responsibilities.


If your child has an underlying health condition, consider having them stay with a trusted family member or friend while you are ill.


Pay attention to your child's health and call a doctor if they develop symptoms.




If someone in your  home is sick, you may need help from a trusted family member or friend. 
Make sure  the helper:

Is at low risk of serious illness. Do not choose  someone who's 60 or older, has an underlying health issue, or is pregnant.
Does not have housemates in high-risk  categories.
Is able to stay home and away from others for 14  days after they finish helping you. The helper should pay attention to their  health and call their doctor if they develop symptoms.











                                6. Can I keep breastfeeding my baby if I have COVID-19?
                                





Breast milk is the best source of nutrition for most infants. However, much is unknown about COVID-19.  Talk to your doctor about whether to start or continue breastfeeding, and then decide what’s best for your family.
If you breastfeed while ill, take steps to avoid spreading the virus: wash your hands before touching your baby and wear a mask if you have one. If it’s possible to express milk with a pump, consider having someone who’s healthy feed the baby. Be sure to wash your hands before touching a pump or bottle parts, and wash all pumping equipment after each use.







                                7. How long will it take to recover?
                                





Most people with mild cases of COVID-19 recover within one to two weeks. A sick person can rejoin household activities after at least 10 days have passed since symptoms started AND 3 days (72 hours) after they have recovered. Recovery means being fever-free without the use of fever-reducing medication, and seeing an improvement in symptoms.
Anyone who has been in close contact with a sick person should stay home and away from others for 14 days. During this time, they should pay attention to their health and call their doctor if they develop any symptoms.
If you need to take time off from work due to illness, you may be able to benefit from Paid Family and Medical Leave.







                                8. How can I talk with my child about COVID-19?
                                





Illness can be scary for kids, especially when it separates them from the people they love. Reassure your child that they will get better soon. Listen to their concerns and remain calm and comforting. Here are just a few resources to help get the conversation started:

Showing  Up For Our Kids During the Outbreak (Public Health Insider)
How  to Talk to Your Kids About Coronavirus (PBS Kids for Parents) 
Talking  to Children About Coronavirus (American Academy of  Child & Adolescent Psychiatry) 
How  to Talk to Your Child About Coronavirus Disease 2019, COVID-19 (UNICEF) 
Speaking  Up Against Racism Around the New Coronavirus  (Teaching Tolerance)








                                9. Additional resources
                                






What to Do If You Are Sick, CDC

Caring for Someone at Home, CDC

Preventing COVID-19 Spread in Homes, CDC

COVID-19 (Public Health), including translated resources

2019 Novel Coronavirus Outbreak, WA State Dept. of Health

Make a Plan, CDC

For CDC coronavirus materials in other  languages, visit the CDC  Print Resources page. Web information is also available in Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese,  and Korean.









Last Updated July 4, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/care/quarantine.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Symptoms, testing and care

                       
                Isolation and quarantine                        
        









                            Isolation and quarantine
                        

                                Local Health Officer Directive and Order, effective as of March 28, 2020
                            






Starting on May 18, 2020, King County residents are directed to wear face coverings in most public settings.    Learn more: kingcounty.gov/masks

Individuals who have tested positive for COVID-19 or who are exhibiting symptoms of COVID-19 and have a test result pending may place other vulnerable members of the public at risk. To protect the health of our community and prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Local Health Officer issued the following: 
Quarantine Directive
Everyone with COVID-19 symptoms (fever, cough, and/or difficulty breathing) who has a test result pending, shall stay in an quarantine location (your home if you have one or in a government directed or publicly provided location if one is available) in accordance with CDC and Public Health guidance.
If your test result is positive, you must then remain in isolation.
Isolation Order
All individuals who tested positive for COVID-19 shall enter and remain in isolation as follows:
Do not leave your home or recovery facility, except to receive medical care.
For individuals with symptoms, discontinue isolation only under the following conditions:

At least 3 days (72 hours) have passed since recovery defined as resolution of fever without the use of fever reducing medications and improvement in respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, shortness of breath); AND,


At least 10 days have passed since symptoms first appeared.

For individuals who tested positive but have not had any symptoms, discontinue isolation when at least 7 days have passed since the date of the first positive COVID-19 diagnostic test, and there has been no subsequent illness.
Compliance
All individuals are strongly urged to voluntarily comply with this directive and order without delay. 
 Individuals who  fail to comply may be subject to involuntary detention pursuant to public health authority under RCW 70.05.070 (2)-(3) and WAC 246-100-036 (3).
For more information
See the complete order for additional details, including conditions of quarantine and isolation.





Last Updated May 11, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/schools-childcare/positive-cases.aspx


Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/schools-childcare/positive-cases.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For schools and child care

                       
                Managing positive COVID-19 cases                        
        









                            Guidance for child care administrators: What to do when you have a suspected/confirmed case of COVID-19 in your facility
                        





 This page is also available in PDF format
You may find that there are differences in the guidance issued by local, state, and national entities. King County is currently more heavily impacted by COVID-19 than many other regions throughout the state. Public Health—Seattle & King County’s guidance reflects our commitment to protecting the health and safety of our residents in light of our unique local circumstances.
As the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, the number of King County cases continues to increase. If you become aware of a COVID-19 case in a child, staff member, or volunteer at your facility, please notify the Public Health COVID-19 Call Center between 8:00 AM and 7:00 PM PST at 206-477-3977. Identify yourself as a child care provider and you will be connected to a nurse consultant from the Seattle & King County Child Care Health Program.
Your partnership and many contributions to the COVID-19 response are enormously valued during this challenging time.




 Key resources  (PDF)




COVID-19 fact sheet for families


Two checklists for child care administrators:  
1) Steps to prevent COVID-19 and 
2) Steps to take when you have a suspected or confirmed COVID-19 case in your facility and also available in Spanish













                                1. We have a suspected or confirmed  case of COVID-19 in our child care community. What should we do?
                                





Make sure that children or staff with suspected or confirmed1 COVID-19 stay home: 

Students and staff with COVID-19 symptoms should stay home and away from others. Learn more about COVID-19 symptoms. 

Examples of COVID-19 symptoms:  cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever (100.4° F or higher), chills, muscle pain, sore throat, new loss of taste or smell, or other signs of new illness that are not related to a preexisting condition (such as seasonal allergies).



People who are sick should stay home and away from others until:
   
at least 10 days have passed since their symptoms first appeared 
      AND 


they have had no fever for at least 72 hours (three full days without  the use of medicine that reduces fever) 
      AND


other symptoms have improved (for example, symptoms of cough or  shortness of breath have improved)




1 * A "suspected case" = a person who shows symptoms of  COVID-19 but has not yet been tested or is waiting for test results. A "confirmed case" = a person (with or without symptoms) who received  a positive result from a COVID-19 laboratory test.







                                2. What do we do for staff and children who had close contact with the person suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19?
                                






Inform all staff and families in your child care community who had close contact with the individual while that person was sick. Provide a copy of the COVID-19 Fact Sheet for Families.

   Close contact includes being within 6 feet of a suspected or confirmed case for about 10 minutes. Close contact also happens if someone with COVID-19 coughs on you, kisses you, shares utensils with you, or you have contact with their body fluids. 


Ask staff and children to stay home and watch for symptoms for 14 days if they had close contact with the person while they were showing symptoms, or in the 48 hours before symptoms began. 


Families working in essential services (such as health care workers and first responders) who are able to keep their child at home and out of child care during this 14-day period without affecting these vital services should do so. However: 
    
Public  Health – Seattle & King County encourages child cares to consider staying open to families that work in essential services (e.g. healthcare) who  do not have this option, as long as the child remains well. 
Child  care providers may continue to work during the 14-day period if they:
        
do not have symptoms AND  
wear a cloth face covering at all times while  working in the child care facility 


Advise families to not send their children to other child care facilities while recovering from illness or watching for symptoms

Advise staff to not work at other child care facilities while recovering from illness or watching for symptoms (see flowchart below).




  Download the decision-tree flowchart for next steps for when a child care facility remains open.








                                3. Do we need to notify Public Health about COVID-19 cases in our facility?
                                





YES! Please notify Public Health even if you have a single, mild case and, especially if:

You see a group of children or staff (i.e. a cluster) with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 infection in your childcare, OR
Staff, children, or volunteers become severely sick with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 infections or undiagnosed respiratory illness (requiring hospitalization or causing death).

To notify Public Health, call the King County Novel Coronavirus Call Center: 206-477-3977. Interpretation is available. Please identify yourself as a childcare provider.







                                4. What actions should we take during a closure?
                                






Notify families and staff in your child care community who had close contact with the case while the case was sick. See COVID-19 Fact Sheet for Families. 
   
Advise people  who had close contact and have symptoms to stay at home and away from others  and to tell their doctor. 
 Advise people who had  close contact with the sick individual and do not have symptoms to stay at home  for 14 days from their last contact with that person and to look for possible  symptoms.




Discourage gatherings. 

Cancel extracurricular group activities.



Clean and disinfect your facility

Refer to the CDC's Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection Recommendations for U.S. Community Facilities with Suspected/Confirmed Coronavirus Disease 2019.



Maintain communication with staff and families. 

Make sure staff and families understand that sick people should remain home until well (see section above: "Make sure that children or staff with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 stay home") 
Include messages to address potential stigma and discrimination. 
Maintain confidentiality of children, students and staff members as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).



Continue to provide meal programs, when possible.  

Consider ways to distribute food to students. 
Do not distribute meals where people might gather in a group or crowd. Consider options such as “grab-and-go” bagged lunches or meal delivery. Find additional meal resources in King County.



Consider alternatives for providing essential medical and social services for students. 








                                5. What steps do we need to take when re-opening the facility to children?
                                






Continuously communicate. Advise all parents, children, staff, and volunteers about steps everyone can take to protect themselves and prevent further spread. These include: staying home and away from the facility while sick, reducing non-essential activities in the community, frequent handwashing for 20 seconds, and avoiding sick people.


Refer to the Checklists for Child Care Administrators: Steps to Prevent COVID-19

See section, "Education and Preparation"

Review CDC guidelines, "Screen children upon arrival." Decide which type of arrival health screening your child care program will implement.

Plan to maintain the same group of children and staff from day to day. Use a separate classroom or group for the children of health care workers, first responders, and other essential workers, if possible.

Print Illness Logs to help monitor absences or children who develop symptoms while in care.




When feasible, ask staff members and older children to wear cloth face coverings within the facility. Cloth face coverings should NOT be put on babies and children under age two. See section, "Prevention" 
   
A child or staff member should isolate at home if they have: cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever (100.4F or higher), chills, muscle pain, sore throat, new loss of taste or smell or other signs of new illness unrelated to a preexisting condition. Learn more about COVID-19 symptoms. 
All staff and children should follow the Keep Me Home If WAC illness guidelines.
  Ask parents/guardians to take their child’s temperature before coming to child care. 





Throughout the day:
  
Visually inspect children for signs of illness. These could include flushed cheeks, rapid breathing or difficulty breathing (without recent physical activity), fatigue, or extreme fussiness.
Perform routine environmental cleaning. Frequently clean, rinse, and sanitize or disinfect commonly touched surfaces (for example, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, and toys). Use the 3-step method.











The COVID-19 situation is rapidly evolving and the virus continues to spread throughout King County. Administrators should prepare for the possibility of additional cases when the child care facility reopens. 
These recommendations may be updated as the outbreak evolves. Public Health appreciates your patience and partnership as we respond to the daily challenges that COVID-19 presents. For frequent updates on this emerging situation, visit: www.kingcounty.gov/covid and subscribe to our blog, the Public Health Insider.





Last Updated June 2, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/schools-childcare/graduation.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For schools and child care

                       
                Guidance for school graduation                        
        









                            Guidance for graduation and other school ceremonies during the COVID-19 pandemic
                        





 This page is also available in PDF format.

Guidance for Graduation Ceremonies during the COVID-19 Pandemic outlines graduation models. It leaves decisions to school boards and superintendents to ensure safety and physical distancing. Ceremonies must align with the Governor's Safe Start Plan. In King County, an additional model meets Safe Start guidelines: www.kingcounty.gov/Safe-Start

Drive-through with individual graduate ceremonies
Students and their household members may arrive in waves. They would leave after a brief, individual ceremony and photo opportunity. This model requires detailed advanced planning and scheduling. This is especially the case for large classes. 
Schools should plan to prevent large gatherings and to keep physical distancing. Plan and communicate with families to reduce traffic and gatherings. Consider additional traffic control measures and safety staffing during these events. 

Strive to host inclusive events for guests who cannot attend in person. Provide alternatives for people with mobility barriers and those who cannot drive. This could include virtual and online options to watch and participate. The individual ceremony should be outdoors in a well-ventilated area.


Have no more than five people at each ceremony. This includes the graduate and their household members, school staff, and photographers/videographers. People who do not share a household must stay at least six feet apart.


There should be no person-to-person contact. Staff may not hand out diplomas nor any other items. Do not shake hands. Consider distributing caps, gowns, and diplomas in advance.

Guidance for ceremonies in all phases of Safe Start
Note these statewide guidelines for all school ceremonies:

People at high risk for severe illness from COVID-19 should stay home. Consider recording or livestreaming ceremonies. 
People who have COVID-19 or been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 must stay home. They should self-isolate or quarantine.
 People must stay home if they feel sick.
 






Last Updated June 8, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/schools-childcare/student-housing.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For schools and child care

                       
                Student housing at higher education institutions                        
        









                            Guidelines for student housing at higher education institutions (HEI)
                        

                                Information on COVID-19
                            









 This page is also in PDF format



 Link/share this page: www.kingcounty.gov/covid/student-housing

Reaffirmation of the guidance
Public Health – Seattle & King County reaffirms this guidance through Fall 2020 operations. Although we do not know how prevalent COVID-19 will be in our community in the fall, higher education institutions may need to make decisions soon about how they will organize housing this fall. It is possible that a resurgence of COVID-19 may occur in the fall, at a time when influenza also emerges. Therefore, the guidance and recommendations described in this document should continue to be used to make decisions regarding student housing for the remainder of 2020.
What is COVID-19 (novel coronavirus)?
Novel coronavirus (COVID-19) is a new virus strain spreading here in King County and throughout the world. Most COVID-19 illnesses are mild with fever and cough. Health experts are concerned because this new virus can cause severe illness and pneumonia in some people – especially people over age 60, people with underlying health conditions or weakened immune systems, and pregnant people.
How does COVID-19 spread?
COVID-19 spreads when an infected person coughs or sneezes. Respiratory droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or may be inhaled into their lungs. It spreads most easily when people are within 6 feet of each other.
COVID-19 also spreads when a person touches a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touches their mouth, nose, or eyes. A recent study showed that coronavirus survives for different amounts of time on different, uncleaned surfaces, ranging from a few hours to several days.
Student housing needs
Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) may be using both in-person classroom instruction and remote and online instruction, with students living at their permanent addresses or in student housing locally. Students may not have healthy and safe permanent homes, or may be concerned about living with family members at high risk of severe illness. There are many reasons why a student may choose to or need to stay in student housing.
What should student housing managers and HEIs do?









                                1. Students at high risk
                                





Most people infected with the novel coronavirus experience mild- to moderate-symptoms or may remain asymptomatic. Some people are at higher risk of severe illness. In addition to being over 60 years of age, other high-risk conditions exist and may be present in the student population in housing. These could include:

Chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma

Heart disease with complications

Compromised immune system, including from undergoing cancer treatment, poorly controlled HIV or AIDS, prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune-weakening medications, or other immune deficiencies

Severe obesity (Body Mass Index >40)

Certain underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled, such as diabetes, renal failure, or liver disease

People who are pregnant should be monitored since they are known to be at risk with severe viral illness, however, to date, data on COVID-19 has not shown increased risk

HEIs may want to establish a health privacy-protected mechanism for students in congregate housing to self-identify if they are in a high-risk category. HEIs should consider providing students in high-risk categories alternative housing that would allow them to reduce contact with others, such as housing with a private bedroom and bathroom. 







                                2. De-densify housing
                                





Consider ways to reduce the density of student housing and increase the ability of students to avoid close contact or shared spaces with one another. For example, as some students leave campus housing to return home, HEIs may be able to move students who remain on campus into housing with single bedrooms and reduce the number of people who share a common bathroom and/or kitchen.
Recommended scenarios:

Best: Each student has an individual unit with private bathroom.


Acceptable: 2-4 students live in apartment-style units with individual bedrooms and shared bathrooms. Consider de-densifying units of four students to fewer such as units of two.


Dormitory-style housing: Students share bedrooms and the bathrooms serve a large number of students. HEIs should take measures to de-densify this type of housing and find ways to limit the number of students using the same bathroom. For example, students can move into singles. 








                                3. Student travel
                                





HEIs should make arrangements to avoid having large numbers of students traveling to and from campus and moving in and out of student housing at the same time. For example, some HEIs are arranging to end in-person instruction after Thanksgiving, with the remainder of instruction for the year being conducted on line. HEIs can also stagger and schedule move in/move out dates.







                                4. Student self-monitoring and self-reporting for COVID-19
                                






Students and anyone else should get a COVID-19 test at the first sign of symptoms, or if they have had close contact with someone who has been confirmed with COVID-19. Testing is arranged through one’s primary care provider. Those without a regular health provider can find access to testing at no cost on the Public Health COVID-19 website.


For students who remain in campus housing, establish a mechanism, such as a dedicated email address, for students to self-report if they are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 or are awaiting or have received a COVID-19 test result.


Students should self-monitor for symptoms including fever; consider providing students with thermometers, if available, to measure their temperature. Students should not share thermometers unless they are no-contact forehead thermometers.


 Provide students experiencing symptoms, or with potential or confirmed cases of COVID-19, with resources to support their daily needs and their health. Refer to the section below on what to do if you have a confirmed case.








                                5. Encourage residents and staff to practice physical distancing, wear face coverings, and get a flu vaccine
                                





Physical distancing remains the most important thing we can do to fight the pandemic.

Close, or use measures to discourage use or gathering in, non-essential common spaces such as fitness rooms or community areas. Suggested measures include prominent signage, markers indicating six-foot distances, removing chairs, and providing disinfecting wipes to use on common surfaces.  
Implement measures that limit or prohibit students entering another student's building, hall, housing unit, or bedroom. 
Encourage students to use their phones and online video conferencing to stay in touch within the residential community.
Students can take walks, runs, bike rides or engage in other outdoor activities while maintaining a six-foot distance from one another.

Wearing face coverings has also been recommended by the CDC and is now mandated by the Washington State Department of Health. This order requires people to wear face coverings in public where people may come within 6 feet of someone outside their household (roommates are considered households). Residents and staff must wear face coverings any time they become within 6 feet of another person, including enclosed hallways, elevators, public restrooms, or other spaces that people use.
HEIs should encourage everyone on campus to get an annual flu vaccine in the fall, and consider ways to make vaccinations easily available to students on campus.







                                6. Manage visitors
                                






Limit or prohibit visitors.


Encourage residents to connect with family and friends by phone and/or online and to postpone non-essential visits.


If possible, limit visitor access to a single point of entry in your building that staff can easily monitor.


Post signs at entrances instructing essential visitors to refrain from entering if they are sick or if they have had close contact with a person who may or does have COVID-19. Close contact includes being within 6 feet of a confirmed case for about 15 minutes, or if someone with COVID-19 coughed on you, kissed you, shared utensils with you, or you had contact with their body secretions.


Post signs instructing visitors to limit their movement in the building and avoid common areas.


Screen visitors for COVID-19 symptoms. 








                                7. Health screening for staff
                                






Screen staff in person or by phone for symptoms of the virus at the start of every day. Anyone with symptoms and people at high risk of severe illness should not come to work. People with these symptoms may have COVID-19: cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever or chills, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, new loss of taste or smell, congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea. This list is not all possible symptoms. The CDC will continue to update this list as they learn more about COVID-19.


Contact Public Health's COVID-19 Call Center with questions about symptoms and risk factors: 206-477-3977 (8 AM – 10 PM daily). The call center is available for all King County residents.








                                8. Frequent cleaning and disinfection
                                






Facility staff should clean and disinfect all surfaces in common areas frequently each day, including doorknobs, elevator buttons, light switches, railings, faucets and handles in common bathrooms, and other surfaces that many people might touch. Follow the CDC guidance on How to Clean & Disinfect.


Ensure adequate supplies for both staff and students to support cleaning and disinfection practices and ensure disinfectants are on the EPA list for use against the novel coronavirus.


Ensure access to EPA-approved disinfecting wipes in common areas so that commonly used surfaces (e.g., faucets, handles, laundry and dishwasher controls, keyboards, countertops) can be wiped down before each use.


Make sure garbage cans for used tissues and paper towels are readily available.


Post prominent signage in common bathrooms and kitchens encouraging frequent and proper cleaning and disinfecting.


 Consider ways in which commonly touched surfaces can be avoided while maintaining safety and security, such as through propping open doors to common areas, bathrooms, etc.








                                9. Work safely in residential units
                                





Limit maintenance work in units as much as feasible. Staff who need to enter a resident’s unit should follow basic hygiene principles including:

Wash hands or use sanitizer (with at least 60% alcohol content) before entering. Wear clean gloves if possible.
Keep at least 6 feet of distance from residents.
Disinfect all work surfaces before leaving the unit.








                                10. Meals
                                






If students are responsible for preparing their own meals, they should be encouraged to keep a good supply of non-perishable food items on hand and limit trips to purchase groceries as much as possible. Students with shared kitchens should arrange for each person to have their own set of eating utensils, drinking glasses, and dishes. Each person should wash their own dishes, or place them in the dishwasher themselves.


Meals from HEI dining facilities should be grab-n-go, take-out, or delivery, using disposable utensils, napkins, and containers.


Regardless of where students eat, students should maintain at minimum a six-foot distance from one another.


Many students rely on campus dining facilities for most of their meals, so students may face higher risks of disease transmission than the general population who may dine outside their homes occasionally. Campus dining facilities should take this higher risk into account in their operations and consider additional measures that go beyond the State restaurant guidance as King County moves through the phases of the Governor's Safe Start plan to slow the spread of COVID-19.









What should students in HEI housing do?









                                1. Practice social distancing
                                






Stay at home in your residential unit and avoid all non-essential contact with others. In particular, avoid contact with people who are sick, and stay home and away from others when you are sick.


Limit trips for groceries, gas, and other essentials.


If it's essential to leave your residence, always stay at least 6 feet away from others.


Support and respect decisions about limited use or temporary closure of common areas in your building.


 Support and respect decisions about limited or no use of common areas in your building. Consider creative ways to connect with others from a distance. Use phone calls, conference calls, and online video conferencing for work, meetings, and to stay in touch with friends and family.








                                2. Practice good respiratory hygiene
                                






Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If hand washing facilities are not available, use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol content.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands
Cover your mouth/nose with a tissue or sleeve when coughing or sneezing, then throw out the used tissue. 
Avoid sharing personal items like drinking glasses, eating utensils, and towels with other people.








                                3. Frequently clean high-touch surfaces in your household
                                





Frequently disinfect and clean high touch surfaces including phones, keyboards, kitchen countertops, toilets, faucets and doorknobs. Standard cleaning products are effective against COVID-19.







                                4. Wear face coverings
                                






Following the Statewide Face Covering Order, wear face coverings in public indoor and outdoor spaces, including HEI housing. Any time that you may come into contact with another person outside your household, wear a face covering, including while passing through enclosed hallways, elevators, bathrooms, or any other space that other people use. Students do not need to wear face coverings when in their rooms. Roommates are considered households. 


Remove the face covering by the straps or ear ties, and do not touch the front of the face covering. Wash hands or apply hand sanitizer before and after putting on and taking off the face covering.


Face coverings should have multiple layers and fit snugly over the nose and mouth. Acceptable face coverings include cloth face masks, bandanas, scarves, and disposable face masks (like dust masks). Face shields, vented masks, and medical masks are not acceptable face coverings.








                                5. Make a plan
                                






Plan how you will get tested if you develop symptoms of COVID-19.


Plan how you will meet your essential needs if you become sick.


Plan how you might help others in your building if they become sick or need to quarantine. For example, you might offer to leave food and other items outside a neighbor's door or check on them with a daily phone call.


Keep a supply of non-perishable food, household items, cleaning supplies and medications on hand so that you can minimize your trips to the grocery store, pharmacy, and other locations.


 Take good care of yourself: Manage stress, eat healthy, exercise and get outside, get enough sleep. Connect with family and friends virtually and ask for help when you need it. All of these simple measures will help you to stay healthy.









What should HEIs do if a COVID-19 case is identified among residents?









                                1. Protect health information
                                





The identity of a suspected or confirmed case is protected health information and may not be disclosed by staff.







                                2. Alert Public Health
                                





HEIs should use this form to report concerns about a case, cluster, or outbreak in student housing. The Public Health- Seattle & King County COVID-19 Investigation Team will review all submitted forms and follow-up as needed.
HEIs may also contact Carrie Cihak or Cecelia Hayes, your regional Higher Education Institutions COVID-19 Response contacts at Public Health (carrie.cihak@kingcounty.gov, cecelia.hayes@kingcounty.gov) for assistance in interpreting this guidance. 
If it is not possible for the HEI to provide housing for a student needing to isolate or quarantine in accordance with the guidance below, the student should call the King County novel coronavirus call center, 8 am – 10 pm, at 206-477-3977. Public Health will triage calls and determine whether to assign the student to a King County isolation and quarantine facility. 







                                3. Contact tracing
                                





Public Health – Seattle & King County and Washington State are continuing to expand our contact tracing capacity. When someone tests positive for COVID-19, the testing laboratory alerts Public Health is alerted. At the time this guidance is issued, Public Health does not yet have demonstrated capacity to quickly follow up with contact tracing for every case, though that capacity is growing. We anticipate having capacity to conduct contact tracing for all cases at higher education institutions by the fall. That may change, however, if the incidence of disease increases significantly.
The sooner close contacts can be notified of potential exposure, the more likely we are able to interrupt further disease transmission. Higher education institutions (HEIs) may hear about COVID-19 cases sooner than Public Health, and when feasible, HEIs should work with students confirmed with COVID-19 to ensure contact tracing is conducted, either directly by Public Health or by the HEI in coordination with Public Health. At a minimum, all HEIs should designate a point person for contact with Public Health on issues related to COVID-19.  Since students in housing are likely to have close contact with other students, HEIs also have a role to play in ensuring that students with potential exposure are able to quarantine. In the event that widespread illness emerges in King County, it may not be possible for Public Health and HEIs to assist with contact tracing in every case.
HEIs may find it helpful to have someone on their staff who is trained in contact tracing. Both Johns Hopkins University and University of Washington offer free online contact tracing courses.







                                4. Provide information to impacted students
                                





HEIs should provide information to students to support them in caring for themselves and limiting the potential for them to spread disease to others:

For students with confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19
For students who were in close contact with someone with COVID-19
For students who are concerned they may have COVID-19 but have no known close contact

These materials have been translated into multiple languages and HEIs should make good effort to provide these materials to students in multiple languages. 







                                5. Isolation and quarantine
                                





While King County Isolation and Quarantine Centers have been able to meet the need for people who are unable to isolate on their own, the potential to overwhelm these Centers remains. To the extent possible, HEIs should prepare for the isolation and quarantine of their students in HEI housing who are confirmed with COVID-19 or have been exposed to a confirmed case.

HEIs should plan for places in which students in shared housing units can be isolated or quarantined. HEIs may want to consider how to utilize on- or off-campus housing that has been vacated by students remaining at home, contracts with local hotels or motels, or arrangements with other HEIs.


HEIs should plan for providing support services to students who are isolated or quarantined, such as meal services and ways for students to be in contact about personal needs.


 Ensure any staff remaining to support students in on-campus housing receive necessary training to protect themselves and residents from spread of COVID-19. Staff should also be trained on how to respond if a resident becomes ill. Adequate cleaning and personal hygiene supplies should be made available.

Isolation is used for people who are currently ill, do not need to be hospitalized, and need to stay away from others to avoid infecting them.
Recommended scenarios:
Best:
HEIs should plan to house students needing isolation in a specially-designated building and in individual rooms with private bathrooms. Ideally, rooms would have doors that open to the outside, with no shared corridors, and individual, self-contained HVAC systems in each room.
Acceptable: 
If it is not possible to house students needing isolation in a separate building, HEIs should designate separate floors or wings of a building away from other residents, and house students needing isolation in individual rooms with private bathrooms. If a student already has a private room with a private bathroom and no roommates, they may remain in place to isolate if they are confirmed with COVID-19 rather than moving out to a separate isolation space (a separate building or floor in the first two scenarios). 
Alternative arrangements if Illness is widespread:
In the case of widespread illness, with no better options available, HEIs may allow students needing isolation to be housed in shared rooms and/or with a shared a bathroom, but only with other students who are also in isolation and confirmed with COVID-19. Every effort should be made to maintain distance among students who are isolated, and isolated students should not have contact with students who are not ill.
Students should remain in isolation for at least 3 days after fever has passed without use of fever-reducing medications AND symptoms have improved, AND at least 10 days after symptom onset.

Quarantine is for people who are not currently showing symptoms but are at increased risk of becoming ill because they have been exposed through close contact with someone with COVID-19.


HEIs should plan to provide individual rooms with private bathrooms for students who have had close contact with someone who is confirmed with COVID-19 to self-quarantine.


HEIs may plan for a small group of students (2-3) who are common roommates of someone who is confirmed with COVID-19 to self-quarantine together, with a bathroom shared only among these students, as long as they can rapidly identify anyone who develops symptoms and separate them.


 HEIs must plan to meet the daily needs (e.g., food, basic supplies) of students in quarantine so that the student is able to stay away from others. Food and other supplies can be delivered to a student's door, and the student alerted by text.
 

Students should remain in quarantine for 14 days after potential exposure.








Mental health and emotional support
This is a trying time for everyone, and especially for young people who may be far from home and the support of family. Be sure that students know where they can get help if they need it, and particularly in cases where they may be thinking of harming themselves. 
Additional resources
While this guide provides information on how to reduce the spread of disease in most student housing circumstances, it is not possible to anticipate or provide guidance for every circumstance. Please contact your regional Higher Education Institutions COVID-19 Response contact, Carrie Cihak or Cecelia Hayes, at Public Health (carrie.cihak@kingcounty.gov, cecelia.hayes@kingcounty.gov) if you want to discuss how this guidance might relate to the specific circumstances in your organization.
For the latest information and guidance on coronavirus, please see:

Public Health – Seattle & King County
Washington State Department of Health
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
CDC guidance on cleaning and disinfection






Last Updated June 27, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/workplaces/grocery-stores.aspx


Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/workplaces/grocery-stores.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For businesses

                       
                Guidance for grocery stores                        
        









                            Guidance for grocery stores to minimize the spread of COVID-19
                        









 This page is also in PDF format



 Link/share this page: www.kingcounty.gov/covid/grocery





As an essential business, grocery stores can play an important role in protecting their employees and customers from COVID-19 by following these recommended personal and environmental hygiene practices.

Apply the social distancing recommendations to any lines that form inside or outside of the store. In areas of high-volume traffic, utilize spacing tools for checks and lines. Put tape on the floor to keep customers adequately spaced.


Prohibit self-serve foods, including hot bars, cold bars and buffets.


Prohibit product sampling

Appoint a designated sanitation worker at all times to continuously clean and sanitize commonly touched surfaces and meet the environmental cleaning guidelines set by the CDC. 


Conduct daily checks for symptoms of illness and ensure employees stay home when they are sick

Ensure that employees practice washing their hands thoroughly with soap and warm water for 20 seconds upon first arriving to work, after using the restroom, before and after eating and frequently throughout the day. Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth.


Provide alcohol based (60%) hand sanitizers for use for both employees and customers by placing them at convenient/accessible locations. Ensure there is a way to sanitize shopping cart and basket handles – either by making wipes easily accessible to customers or by having employees manage the process and sanitize between each customer use.


Frequently sanitize commonly touched surfaces and objects such as electronics, door knobs, faucet handles, counter tops, cash machine key pads, shopping cart handles frequently throughout the day. Change the sanitizing solution at least once every four hours.


Consider temporarily assigning employees at high risk for coronavirus to non-public-contact duties, such as people with underlying health conditions, people 60 or older, people with underlying health conditions, those with weakened immune systems or those who are pregnant. 


Offer designated shopping hours for customers at high risk, including people with underlying health conditions, people 60 or older, people with underlying health conditions, those with weakened immune systems or those who are pregnant.


Prominently display signage in the store that communicates with customers and staff the steps being taken to minimize the risk of COVID-19. Download resources.



Downloadable posters to print and post to help grocery stores to communicate with their customers and staff the steps they are taking to minimize the risk of COVID-19.

Poster for
grocery store shoppers


Poster for
grocery store staff





CONTACT US
If you are a food business owner or a food worker and have questions related to your operation, please reach out to your Environmental Health Investigator or call 206-263-9566 to speak with office staff. For the latest  information, please visit the following site: www.kingcounty.gov/COVID






Last Updated June 17, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/workplaces/report-cases.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For businesses

                       
                Employees with COVID-19                        
        









                            What to do if an employee has COVID-19 – and what not to do
                        





Effective July 7, the Governor's Safe Start Proclamation requires employers in King County (in non-healthcare settings) to notify Public Health – Seattle & King County *within 24 hours* if they suspect COVID is spreading in their workplace or if there are two or more confirmed or suspected cases among their employees in a 14 day period. Report cases online.
Provide next steps to the employee
Tell your employees to take the following steps if they experience COVID-19 symptoms, especially fever, cough or shortness of breath:

Isolate immediately. If an employee is experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, they should isolate themselves immediately from others to reduce the risk of spreading the infection.
Stay home. Don't return to work until you feel healthy, where you have gone three straight days without a fever without the use of any fever reducing medications and improving respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, shortness of breath) and at least 10 days have passed since symptoms first appeared. 
Seek testing. If you have even mild symptoms or have had close contact with a person who has COVID-19, get tested. 

Get medical care. Seek advice from your doctor on what to do if you are sick. If you don't have a doctor, call the King County COVID-19 Call Center at 206-477-3977.
Reporting cases and protecting employees' privacy
At this time, most employers are not required to report a single COVID-19 case among employees to Public Health – Seattle & King County. The Health Department will be informed via the healthcare provider that conducted the employee's COVID-19 test.
When employers must report cases to Public Health – Seattle & King County:

Employers who operate in healthcare and social service settings (e.g., senior living communities, homeless shelters, child care programs) should report cases to Public Health, while maintaining the confidentiality of anyone who is sick.


Employers in King County in non-healthcare settings must notify Public Health – Seattle & King County within 24 hours if they suspect COVID is spreading in their workplace or if there are two or more confirmed or suspected cases among their employees in a 14 day period.


If you are a non-healthcare or social services setting, but you think the virus may be spreading through your workplace, please contact Public Health. If one of your employees has been diagnosed with COVID-19 and may have been in close contact with other employees while infectious, notify other employees they may have been exposed, but do not identify the person who is sick.


 REPORT CASES ONLINE. 

Cleaning and disinfection
In most cases, you do not need to shut down your facility. If it has been less than 7 days since the sick employee has been in the facility, close off any areas used for prolonged periods of time by the sick person:

Wait 24 hours from the last time the employee was in the facility before cleaning and disinfecting to minimize potential exposure for other employees. If waiting 24 hours is not feasible, wait as long as possible.
During this waiting period, open outside doors and windows to increase air circulation in these areas.

If it has been 7 days or more since the sick employee used the facility, additional cleaning and disinfection is not necessary. Continue routinely cleaning and disinfecting all high-touch surfaces in the facility. Follow the CDC cleaning and disinfection recommendations.
Maintain healthy business operations

Appoint a COVID-19 supervisor to trace cases in the workforce and alert anyone who may have been exposed. The supervisor should help employees who have tested positive trace their contacts with coworkers. The supervisor should also prepare resources to assist workers who need guidance about how to isolate or quarantine at home. The supervisor must maintain the privacy of employees' protected health information.


Establish flexible sick leave policies and practices that are flexible and supportive, especially for workers 60 or older or those with underlying health conditions that make them especially vulnerable to the virus. When sick employees can stay home, it prevents the spread to others at work.


Do not require a doctor's note from any employees with symptoms of COVID-19.


Communicate supportive workplace policies, such as telework options, employee assistance programs, alternatives to public-facing duties, in the preferred language of employees.


Establish social distancing policies and practices

Resources

For further information, contact the King County COVID-19 Community and Business Compliance line at 206-296-1608 or send your questions to coronavirus@kingcounty.gov.


Detailed information is available from the CDC






Last Updated July 9, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/workplaces/food-establishments.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For businesses

                       
                Guidelines for restaurants and other food businesses                        
        









                            Guidelines for restaurants and other food businesses
                        

                                Minimizing the spread of COVID-19
                            









 This page is also in PDF format

Governor Jay Inslee issued a "Stay Home - Stay Healthy" order in Washington state on March 23, 2020. The order will last for a minimum of two weeks. The order requires every Washingtonian to stay at home, except for specific situations. The exceptions include people going to work at an essential business.
While restaurants are designated as an essential business, they are only allowed to stay open for carry-out and quick serve food operations – including food preparation, carry-out and delivery food. Food businesses can play an important role in both protecting their employees and customers from COVID-19 by following the recommended personal and environmental hygiene practices described below.

Stay home when you are sick.


Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water for 20 seconds upon first arriving to work, after using the restroom, before and after eating and frequently throughout the day. Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth.


Provide alcohol based (60%) hand sanitizers for use for both employees and customers by placing them at convenient/accessible locations.


Use sanitizing solution (i.e., one teaspoon of unscented household bleach in a gallon of cool water) to frequently sanitize commonly touched surfaces and objects such as electronics, door knobs, faucet handles, counter tops, cash machine key pads, dining tables frequently throughout the day. Change the sanitizing solution at least once every four hours.


Stop self-serve style operations, including salad bars, buffets and dispensers.


Implement social distancing by ensuring employees and customers maintain social distancing of at least 6ft and reduce duration of close contacts.


Ensure dishwasher and/or three –compartment sinks are used properly and have the appropriate level of sanitizer for final rinse (50-100 PPM chlorine based sanitizer, follow product label for other approved sanitizers).


Ensure sneeze guards are in place where required.




Preparation for reopening restaurants with introduction to Phase II requirements



On May 20, 2020, Public Health – Seattle & King County hosted a webinar in collaboration with the City of Seattle and the Washington Hospitality Association, outlining guidance for reopening restaurants and how to prepare for Phase II of the Safe Start approach to reopening. 
Presenters provide guidance for preparing equipment and buildings for opening, ensuring employee and customer health and safety, how to implement Safe Start requirements, and more.




 KEY RESOURCES




Phase 2 guidance for King County restaurants


Guidance for small grocery stores


Guidance for reopening food establishments


Guidance for food distribution


Guidance for grocery stores


Cleaning, sanitizing and disinfecting meal programs and food distibution operations


When food workers are positive for COVID-19


Farmers Market COVID 19 plan requirements


Virtual food safety assessments








If you have food employees at higher risk for coronavirus with underlying health conditions, such as people 60 or older, people with underlying health conditions (heart disease, lung disease, or diabetes) or those with weakened immune systems or those who are pregnant: consider temporarily assigning employees with underlying health conditions to non-public-contact duties.

CONTACT US
If you are a  food business owner or a food worker and have questions related to your  operation please reach out to your Health Investigator or call 206-263-9566 to  speak with office staff. For more detailed information, visit the WA Department  of Health's Food  Worker and Establishment Guidance on COVID-19.






Last Updated April 26, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/workplaces/rodent-prevention.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For businesses

                       
                Rodent control for reopening buildings                        
        









                            Rodent prevention and control for reopening buildings during COVID-19
                        





Buildings or spaces that have been unoccupied for a period of time may be at risk of rodent infestations. Rats and mice are common pests in King County and the following are some tips to help you reopen your building safely. Even if you continued your pest control services during quarantine, you should still take extra precautions concerning rodents as you move back into your building.
Outside your building

Inspect your building as entry points along building foundations, sweeps of doors, attics, and roof tops for signs of rodents. Exterior rodent evidence include droppings, grease/rub markings, and gnawed holes in containers or doors.


Remove any rodent food or harborage such as garbage, junk items, and overgrown vegetation. Rodents are attracted by pet food, pet waste, human garbage, compost piles, and fallen berries/fruit.

Inside your building

When entering the building wear a mask or face covering.


Open windows and doors to improve ventilation and wait until 30 minutes have passed to re-enter buildings.


Inspect for signs of rodents, including droppings, urine, nests, damaged goods, dead rodents, or a new odor.

What to do if you find evidence of rodents (rats and mice)

While only deer mice carry hantavirus, special care should be taken when cleaning up after all rodents.


If there are signs of an active infestation it is recommended that you follow the CDC guidelines for cleaning up after rodents.
  
You may need to consult with a pest control professional.

Wear gloves for all cleaning.

Seal up any entry points for rodents. 

Trap rodents in the building until 7 days have passed without trapping any rodent. This helps to reduce the exposure to germs in rodent urine and feces. 

Clean surfaces with a disinfectant cleaner. Use a wet technique for cleaning. If surfaces are dusty, spray them down first.

Avoid sweeping and vacuuming to reduce dust. 

Discard dead rodents by first spraying the rodent with disinfectant such as bleach and water and letting it sit for 5 minutes. The dead rodent can be wrapped in paper towel or newspaper, or placed in a bag, and discarded in the garbage.



Supplies for rodent clean up

Gloves

Face covering (dust mask)

Disinfectant (1 part bleach to 10 parts water)

Paper towels or disposable cloths

Garbage bags

References and resources

Rodent prevention and control, Public Health – Seattle & King County 

Rodent Control, CDC
Cleaning up after Rodents, CDC

Hantavirus Prevention, Public Health – Seattle & King County







Last Updated May 28, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/workplaces/housing.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For businesses

                       
                For housing managers and staff                        
        









                            COVID-19 guidance for housing managers, staff and residents
                        

                                For apartment buildings, condominiums, and similar residential communities
                            









 This page is also in PDF format



 See also: Face protection for housing and shelter staff 



 Link/share this page: www.kingcounty.gov/covid/housing










                                1. What should property managers and site managers do?
                                





Encourage residents and staff to practice social distancing and wear face coverings
Social distancing is one of the most important things we can do to fight the pandemic.

Support staff in practicing social distancing. Allow staff to telecommute and use flexible leave time wherever possible. 

Post information in staff areas, common spaces, and entry points about actions everyone should take to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Find downloadable signs in multiple languages on the Public Health website.
Share information about COVID-19 with residents in multiple languages. Find materials  on the Public Health website.
 Encourage staff, residents, and visitors to wear cloth face coverings in spaces where they could come within 6 feet of someone they don't live with. Find downloadable signs in multiple languages on the Public Health website.

Manage use of common areas

Consider closing common areas that do not support residents' basic needs, like entertainment rooms.
 Take precautions in common areas that remain open, like pet relief areas and shared computer workstations:
  
Ensure that staff or residents clean and disinfect all high-touch surfaces between users. These include keyboards, touch screens, and exercise equipment. 
Ensure that staff and residents can remain at least 6 feet apart at all times while using common areas. If needed, limit the number of people using a common area at the same time. Consider using visual reminders about 6-foot spacing.   



Manage visitors

Limit access to visitors. Continue to allow essential visitors, like home care workers, healthcare workers, and emergency maintenance.

Encourage residents to connect with family and friends by phone and/or online and to postpone visits that are not essential.

If possible, limit visitor access to a single point of entry in your building that staff can easily monitor. 

Post signs at entrances instructing essential visitors to not enter if they are sick or if they have had close contact with a person who may have or does have COVID-19. 

Post signs that tell visitors to limit their movement in the building and their use of common areas.

Conduct tours virtually, when possible

Conduct virtual tours of apartments and condominiums using apps such as FaceTime or Google Duo. If that is not an option, send photographs of the living space to potential residents.
If you must conduct an in-person tour, ensure that all people stay at least 6 feet apart. Do not allow more than two people in a unit at a time. For instance, allow the prospective resident to view rooms while staff stay outside or in a different room.
 Before conducting an in-person tour of an occupied unit, always get full consent from the current tenant. If the tenant refuses, conduct the tour virtually.

Be aware of residential construction guidelines
As of April 24, construction is allowed if all individuals stay at least six feet apart. Construction supervisors must take steps to protect both workers and residents.
Monitor staff health

Screen staff in person or by phone for symptoms of the virus at the start of every day. Anyone with symptoms and people at high risk of infection should not come to work. Risk factors include being age 60 and over, having an underlying health condition or a weakened immune system, and being pregnant.
Contact Public Health's COVID-19 Call Center with questions about symptoms and risk factors. 
 Hours: 8 AM – 7 PM. Phone #: 206-477-3977.

Take precautions if you have a case in your housing community

If you believe someone in your housing community has or may have COVID-19, do not share their personal health information. The person's identity is protected health information. 
Follow CDC's recommendations for protecting essential workers who may have been exposed to COVID-19.
Clean and disinfect thoroughly. Follow CDC's Interim Recommendations for U.S. Community Facilities with Suspected/Confirmed COVID-19.
If the identity of a case is known, visitors and staff should not enter the unit. 
It is not necessary to alert residents about possible cases.
 








                                2. What should maintenance staff and other employees do?
                                





Frequently clean and disinfect public spaces

Clean and disinfect all high-touch several times each day, such as doorknobs, elevator buttons, light switches, and railings. Clean and disinfect items in common spaces (e.g. keyboards and fitness equipment) after each user.
Use common EPA-registered household disinfectants.
 Make sure garbage cans are available for used tissues and paper towels.

Work safely in residential units 
Limit maintenance work in units as much as feasible. Staff who need to enter a resident’s unit should: 

Wash hands or use sanitizer (with at least 60% alcohol content) before entering. Wear clean gloves if possible.

Keep at least 6 feet of distance from residents.

Disinfect all work surfaces before leaving the unit.

Wear face protection
Wear a face covering in any space where you might come within 6 feet of someone you don't live with. If you may have close contact with someone that has or may have COVID-19, follow this face protection guidance.







                                3. What should residents do?
                                





Practice social distancing

Stay at home in your residential unit (unless you are an essential worker) as much as possible. In particular, avoid contact with people who are sick, and stay home and away from others when you are sick.  
Limit trips for groceries, gas, and other household needs.

If you  leave your residence, always stay at least 6 feet away from others. 

Limit use of common spaces, like pet relief areas, computer labs, and storage rooms. Only use these spaces if you can stay at least 6 feet apart from residents and staff at all times.

Wear a cloth face covering in public
Wear a cloth face covering in any space where you might come within 6 feet of someone you don't live with, including elevators, lobbies, and shared laundry rooms. Do not use cloth face coverings on children under age 2, on anyone who has trouble breathing, or on anyone who cannot remove the mask on their own.
Limit visitors

Only allow visitors who are providing essential services. This include services that cannot wait and cannot be done over the phone or online.

Be aware that some construction and emergency repairs may need to continue in your building to address unsafe conditions and other needs that cannot wait. Workers in your building are expected to take steps to protect everyone's health. These include staying at least 6 feet away from you and other residents, washing their hands or using hand sanitizer between units, wearing a mask, and cleaning workspaces frequently.

Consider creative ways to connect with others from a distance. Use phone calls, conference calls, and online video conferencing for work, meetings, and to stay in touch with friends and family.

Practice healthy habits

Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If handwashing facilities are not available, use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol content.

Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands

Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or sleeve when coughing or sneezing.

Do not share personal items like drinking glasses, eating utensils, and towels with other people.

Frequently clean high-touch surfaces in your household
Frequently disinfect and clean high touch surfaces. This includes phones, keyboards, kitchen countertops, toilets, faucets and doorknobs. Standard cleaning products are effective against COVID-19.
Make a plan
Review CDC's guidance for household members, Get Your Home Ready.







                                4. What should I do if I think I may have been exposed to COVID-19?
                                





Please follow guidance from the Washington State Department of Health. King County residents can also call Public Health's COVID-19 Call Center with questions about symptoms and risk factors. Hours: 8 AM – 7 PM. Phone #: 206-477-3977. 
Please note: Per CDC guidance, essential workers such as janitors and healthcare workers can continue to work if they were exposed to COVID-19 as long as they do not have any symptoms AND steps are taken to protect them and the community.







                                5. Additional resources
                                





For more information and guidance on coronavirus, please refer to: 

Public Health – Seattle & King County

BOMA Seattle

Washington State Department of Health

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)










Last Updated June 7, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/community-faith-organizations/FAQ.aspx


Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/community-faith-organizations/FAQ.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For community and faith-based organizations

                       
                FAQ for religious and faith-based organizations                        
        









                            FAQ for religious and faith-based organizations
                        

                                Updated July 8, 2020
                            





 This page is also available in PDF format.

Governor Jay Inslee announced on May 28th Washington state's plan for restarting religious and faith-based services as part of Washington's “Safe Start” reopening plan. Religious and faith-based organizations in Phase 2 counties may host up to 200 people for services. 
Additional guidance from Public Health – Seattle & King County regarding COVID-19 for religious and faith-based organizations is critical for our diverse communities. Public Health recognizes that places of worship are more than a place to pray; they provide community and healing, especially for injustices past and present, particularly against Black, Indigenous, and people of color. This is even more important as marginalized communities are those hit hardest by COVID-19.
Unsafe faith services have been documented in Washington State prior to the announcement of Governor Jay Inslee's "Stay Home, Stay Healthy" Proclamation 20-25 and outside Washington State upon reopening. We can take a health-based approach to ensure the safety of staff, members, and visitors at faith services.
Phase 2 Services
Please refer to the Governor's guidance on Phase 2 Faith-based and Religious Organization Requirements for full details.









                                1. Can faith and religious services be held?
                                





Yes. It is permissible to hold:

Outdoor services on the organization's property (or immediately adjacent property if explicitly permitted by the local jurisdiction) with up to 100 individuals, excluding organization staff. Indoor services at a place of worship with up to 25% capacity or up to 200 people, whichever is less, so long as six feet of physical distancing can be achieved between households.

 If your organization has multiple rooms or another building, each can hold services for up to 25% of the space's capacity or 200 people, whichever is less, so long as each room meets the following requirements: 



Each room has a door that leads outside that can be used as the entrance and exit 

Each room has restrooms

Six feet of physical distancing between households can be achieved

Individuals in one room shall not enter other parts of the building if they are being used for services



In-home services or counseling inside a person's residence with up to five total individuals (excluding organization staff)

Any organization volunteers are included in the maximum number of permissible individuals. The services covered in these operational guidelines include all worship services, religious study classes, religious ceremonies, religious holiday celebrations, weddings, and funerals.
Organizations are strongly encouraged to keep a log of attendees at each service or counseling session, and to retain that log for at least two weeks. If an outbreak occurs, this information may be critical to help save lives.







                                2. What safety and health requirements must religious and faith-based organizations follow?
                                





All organizations (including religious and faith-based organizations) have a general obligation to keep a safe and healthy facility in accordance with state and federal law, and comply with the following COVID-19 organization-specific safety practices, as outlined in Governor Jay Inslee's "Stay Home, Stay Healthy" Proclamation 20-25, and in accordance with the Washington State Department of Labor & Industries General Requirements and Prevention Ideas for Workplaces and the Washington State Department of Health Workplace and Employer Resources & Recommendations. 
Religious and faith-based organizations must specifically ensure operations follow the main L&I COVID-19 requirements to protect employees, members, and visitors:

Always maintain minimum six-foot separation between all employees, members, and visitors. When strict physical distancing is not feasible for a specific task, other prevention measures are required, such as the use of barriers.


Educate all employees in the language in which they are most proficient about COVID-19, how to prevent transmission of the virus, and the owner's COVID-19 policies. Trainings on how to prevent the spread of COVID-19 are available by request from Public Health – Seattle & King County.


All employees, members, and visitors aged 5 and older in attendance must wear face coverings before, during, and after services.

Exceptions: children ages 4 years and younger; those who are deaf, hard of hearing, or rely on facial cues to communicate; anyone who has trouble breathing, is unconscious, or unable to remove the face covering without help; or anyone who has been advised by a medical professional to not wear a face covering because of personal health issues.

Religious and faith-based organizations are required to provide face coverings to employees and volunteers. Additionally, they must require the use of face coverings by visitors. The State has additional information on face covering requirements. 

See section 11 below on accessing free face coverings.




Screen employees for signs/symptoms of COVID-19 before every shift. Ask members and visitors to self-screen for sign/symptoms of COVID-19 prior to attending services. Anyone with a sign or symptom of COVID-19 should not attend services and should self-isolate.

Request employees, members, and visitors to take their temperature before attending a service. Any individual with a temperature of 100.4°F will not be permitted to attend the service or attend work at the organization.

Any individual with a household member who has been diagnosed with COVID-19 or with symptoms of COVID-19 (including a fever above 100.4°F) may not attend the service or attend work at the organization.




Regularly clean and sanitize your workplace, especially frequently touched surfaces. Follow cleaning guidelines set by the CDC.


Singing is a high-risk activity because it can spread infectious droplets. Choirs shall not perform during services. Singing by individuals is only permitted while wearing face coverings.


Disinfectants and soap and running water must be available to employees, members, and visitors. Ensure frequent and adequate hand washing with adequate maintenance of supplies.


Members and visitors should not gather with those outside of their household before or after services.


Members and visitors should bring their own readings. Readings and supplies provided by religious or faith organizations should be cleaned and disinfected as any other equipment involved in services.


Staff, members, and visitors may not remove their face coverings during services. Staff must clean and disinfect any equipment that will come into contact with the lips (through a face covering) between uses.


Staff should consider using voice amplification so that speakers behind face coverings, face shields, and physical barriers such as a plastic screen can be heard clearly.

A location-specific COVID-19 Supervisor shall be designated by the organization at each location to monitor the health of employees and enforce the COVID-19 safety plan.
An employee may refuse to perform unsafe work, including hazards created by COVID-19. Review the Governor's guidelines for religious and faith-based organizations and Washington State Labor & Industries' FAQs on Paid Sick Leave and Coronavirus (COVID-19) for more information.







                                3. What additional safety practices must religious and faith-based organizations follow?
                                





For other required safety practices, closely  review Religious  and Faith-based Organization COVID-19 requirements. 







                                4. A staff or member of my organization was sick with COVID-like symptoms or was exposed to someone with COVID-19. How long until they can rejoin services?
                                





The staff or  member may be around others again after:

3 days with no fever AND
10 days since symptoms first appeared AND
Other symptoms have improved

A graphic representation of this is available in English and Spanish.







                                5. Can funerals and weddings take place?
                                





Funerals and weddings are critical services provided by religious and faith-based organizations. Funeral services and practices often provide healing and spiritual guidance for all faiths. Weddings can provide joy, renewal, and hope, especially during the pandemic.
In order to keep these events safe for all:

Screen employees for signs/symptoms of COVID-19. Ask members and visitors to self-screen for sign/symptoms of COVID-19 prior to attending services. Anyone with a sign or symptom of COVID-19 should not attend services and should self-isolate.

Organizations must follow operational guidelines outlined above. Staff, members, and visitors must maintain at least 6-foot distance from others. Face coverings must be kept on for the entire service.

Staff, members, and visitors should not hug anyone outside of their household.

No gathering before or after the service.

Non-religious wedding and funeral services can take place if planners can meet and maintain all requirements for religious and faith-based organizations. If food is served at these events, the venue must comply with restaurant guidance and only conduct activities allowable under the current phase.







                                6. How can we reduce the risk of infection while ensuring members can hear the speaker?
                                





Staff should consider using voice amplification so that speakers behind physical barriers can be heard clearly. Those from different households must maintain at least 6-foot separation from each other at all times.
Electronics such as microphones should be cleaned and disinfected before and after handling by those outside of the same household. Follow manufacturer’s instructions for cleaning and disinfecting. If no guidance is available, use alcohol-based wipes or sprays containing at least 70% alcohol. Avoid using harsh cleaning chemicals or any type of bleach. Do not spray the device directly. Use a dry, soft cloth to clean if possible. Let the device dry completely after cleaning. 
Cleaning devices does not take the place of good hand hygiene. Staff, members, and visitors should wash their hands frequently and avoid touching their faces.







                                7. How can washing before prayers for Muslim communities (such as Wudhu) take place safely?
                                





Members and visitors may consider ritual washing at home prior to arriving at services.
Faith and religious organizations must control access to washing areas and limit to no more than 2 people at a time. Individuals waiting to use the area must maintain at least 6 feet of distance between each person.








                                8. How can service goers take communion or receive the Eucharist?
                                





Employees, members, and visitors may not come into direct physical contact. Anything to be consumed may not be presented to the members or visitors in a communal container or plate.
Faith and religious organizations must utilize single-use containers and utensils, such as cups and spoons. Employees, members, and visitors must have access to soap and running water.
Staff or those serving anything to be consumed, such as the Eucharist or sacramental offering, must wear personal protective equipment (PPE) including gloves and face coverings. They must not place anything to be consumed directly into the mouth of staff, members, or visitors. Instead, staff, members, and visitors may be pick up single-use containers. See additional safety precautions.







                                9. How can readings by people required to be within 6 feet, such as reading of the Torah, take place safely?
                                





There may be no direct physical contact between employees and members or visitors. Always maintain minimum six-foot separation between all employees, members, and visitors. When strict physical distancing is not feasible for a specific task, other prevention measures are required, such as the use of barriers.
Members of the same household may conduct readings within 6 feet of one another but must keep face coverings on. 







                                10. Is education available for faith leaders on how to stop the spread of COVID-19?
                                





Yes. Public Health has extensive resources available on how community and faith-based organizations, businesses, and individuals can stay healthy and help slow the spread of COVID-19. Additionally, Public Health – Seattle & King County Speaker's Bureau offers free trainings available by request. These webinars are available in multiple languages, by request.







                                11. We do not have access to enough face coverings for staff, members, or visitors. How can we access free face coverings?
                                





All employees, members, and visitors in attendance must wear face coverings before, during, and after services. Public Health's webpage on face coverings includes an infographic on how to properly wear face coverings and a list of who in exempt from the statewide face covering requirement.
Religious and faith-based organizations are required to provide face coverings to employees and volunteers. Additionally, they must require the use of face coverings by visitors. The State has additional information on face covering requirements.
Community and faith-based organizations can request free face coverings and hand sanitizer online. They must submit this form regardless of current or past engagement with County staff about receiving face coverings.
Individuals who live in a city can contact their city to find out how they are distributing free face coverings. Cities have received shipments of face coverings from the County. 
Unincorporated area residents should watch for updates about distribution through their local unincorporated area council, local community-based and faith-based organizations.
The Public Health Insider blog has detailed directions and videos for how to make a face covering, including child-sized face coverings.







                                12. Can small-group gatherings such as Sunday School and support groups for those in recovery from addiction continue?
                                





Yes. Religious study classes, religious ceremonies, and other gatherings and services provided by religious and faith-based organizations are permitted. Staff, members, and visitors must always still wear face coverings and maintain at least 6 feet of separation.
Please review Washington State's complete guidance for how to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in religious and faith gatherings.







                                13. Does King County provide sanitary materials such as bleach and other supplies?
                                





King County is working with regional private and public sector organizations to direct donations to agencies in need and the people they are charged to serve during the COVID-19 outbreak. Organizations may make a request via the Donations Connector where they will be matched with those making and distributing supplies such as hand sanitizer for free.









Last Updated July 8, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/community-faith-organizations/PCAG.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                For community and faith-based organizations

                       
                Pandemic Community Advisory Group                        
        









                            Pandemic Community Advisory Group 
                        








 About the Pandemic Community Advisory Group



 Link/share: www.kingcounty.gov/pcag

In early March 2020, Public Health — Seattle & King County convened representatives from various community, business, and government sectors in King County who are working together to help slow the spread of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by accelerating the use of the recommended and required community mitigation strategies.
Committed to two-way communication, the Advisory Group helps share information and urge action within their respective networks, and also informs Public Health on what they are seeing on the ground – both challenges and opportunities. We work to help prevent, interrupt, and respond to misinformation and stigma. 
Meeting presentation materials
Information about COVID-19 is changing frequently. Guidance found in these presentations may be outdated. Please consult the COVID-19 homepage for the most current information.









                                July 2020 meeting materials
                                





July 2, 2020

Reflections

Feedback on mental health indicators brief

Maximizing safety in Phase 2 reopening: your challenges & successes

July 9, 2020

Introductions

Participation guidelines

Background: Commitments to pro-equity strategies in the King County budget 

Budget input Part 1:  COVID-19 emergency funding (2020)

Budget input Part 2:  2021-2022 biennial budget








                                June 2020 meeting materials
                                





June 4, 2020

Standing for Justice while we keep our community safe

COVID-19 and Unrecognized Realities Experienced by Black People

Safe Start: King County's application to the State for modified Phase 1 opening

King County Small Business Task Force Webinars

Testing updates 

Now hiring - Contact Tracers! 

Face coverings and personal protective equipment

New grant opportunity: supplemental COVID-19 Community Response Fund, King County Office of Equity and Social Justice

New data on the Social, Economic and Overall Health Impact Dashboard: Traffic

June 11, 2020

Face coverings distribution

Safe Start Phase 2

Reflections from the Community Health Board Coalition

Racism is a public health crisis

June 18, 2020

Community Well-being
Seattle Foundation Phase 2 Grants
Re-opening safely
Open discussion and announcements

June 25, 2020

Announcements from Advisory Group members
Discuss King County Budget








                                May 2020 meeting materials
                                





May 7, 2020

Check in on proposed non-medical face coverings directive

Mobilizing for contact tracing

May 14, 2020

Follow-up items 

Perspectives from Advisory Group members

Monitoring social, economic, and health impacts of COVID-19 mitigation on King County residents

May 21, 2020

Seattle Foundation – Phase 2 Update

Reflections from Aging & Disability Services

Check in on face coverings Directive

Considerations for expanding community access to PPE

May 28, 2020

Controlling the spread of COVID-19 in King County: What barriers are you seeing? What help is needed?








                                April 2020 meeting materials
                                





April 2, 2020

Positive signs - and a continued call to action

Current situation and key resources

Isolation and quarantine discussion

Supporting mental health: what would be helpful?

April 9, 2020

Welcome and current context

COVID-19 Data Tools; understanding the impacts of COVID-19 on vulnerable groups – what’s important to you?

Seattle Foundation COVID-19 Response Fund – Feedback & Next Steps

Open forum/Q&A

April 16, 2020

Welcome

Discussion with King County Metro Transit

Looking ahead: A conversation with Patty Hayes, Director of Public Health - Seattle & King County

April 23, 2020 

Deepening community partnerships to build a more just recovery

Highlighting community response efforts

Follow-up items from previous meetings

April 30, 2020

Path forward

Updated on COVID-19 data by race/ethnicity

Community response efforts

Follow-upand future items







                                March 2020 meeting materials
                                





March 5, 2020

Intent of Advisory Group

COVID-19 Response – Community Mitigation Structure

Current Guidance - Recommended Strategies to Reduce Spread

Open Forum – Priority Issues and Questions

March 12, 2020

Follow-ups from last week

Current situation and guidance

COVID-19 Response Fund: Seattle Foundation

March 19, 2020

Current situation and new guidance

Communication tools

Matching needs and resources: What’s happening now? Creative ideas for more rapid, equity-driven connections?

March 26, 2020

An encouragement for self-care

Community mitigation group structure – sector task forces

Seattle Foundation COVID-19 Response Fund Update 

Latest mitigation strategies: Stay Home, Stay Healthy and accompanying social marketing campaign

Supporting mental health: what would be helpful?










CONTACT US



For more information about the Pandemic Community Advisory Group, contact: 

Janna Wilson at janna.wilson@kingcounty.gov or 206-263-8281
 Matías Valenzuela at matias.valenzuela@kingcounty.gov or 206-263-8697








Last Updated July 5, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






Scraping from https://www.kingcounty.gov/depts/health/covid-19/support/presentation-requests.aspx




 Menu



                Home



                Public Health — Seattle & King County



                COVID-19 resources



                Community support and well-being

                       
                Community presentation requests                        
        









                            Community presentation requests
                        





It is crucial that we all stay informed on the latest information regarding COVID-19. The Speaker's Bureau provides presentations with the latest information, resources, and guidance's for COVID-19 to the community. We strive to provide culturally relevant presentations and provide answers that your community, business, or organization is looking for. Our goal is to ensure that all communities in King County have the knowledge they need to stay safe and healthy during this time.







Presentation topics
We can work with you to provide your organization with a presentation about COVID-19 and any relevant topics that your community is looking for. We can provide presentation for any type of organization. In the past we have worked with community-based organizations, faith-based organizations, businesses (large and small), and local and state government to provide webinars on various topics related to COVID-19 including:

Latest COVID-19 information and guidance

Public Charge for immigrant and refugee communities 

COVID-19 information for social workers 

Children's health 

School and education

Food banks

Townhall presentations

And more

If your topic isn't listed above, do not hesitate to ask. We are also able to provide presentations in various languages.
If you do not have an online platform to use for your webinar, we will be able to provide one for you. Currently the County is using Zoom for the majority of its webinars given Zoom’s greater accessibility. We will be able to create a Zoom link for your webinar and provide tech support. This service is only reserved for organizations that do not have access to an online platform. Please ask us if you need this service.


Submit a request for a presentation





   Open and complete the online request form 



About you (Your information will not be shared):










FIRST NAME





LAST NAME





AGENCY/COMPANY




 Phone with area code





 Email




STREET ADDRESS







CITY





STATE





ZIP CODE





COUNTY


Let us know about your needs:

When do you need your webinar?
Please allow at least 5 business days advanced notice to allow us to prepare:



What concerns does your group want to address? 





What might be key topic areas you want covered during this time? 





Has your audience had a COVID-19 webinar before? 




                      Yes. 
                      If so, please describe:








                    No. 



How many people do you anticipate being on the call?



Submit Request













In the wake of COVID-19, there has been a lot of information and myths circulating. We want to make sure our community has relevant information and resources. The Speakers Bureau enjoys creating welcoming, safe, and engaging virtual and phone spaces for all people to discuss the resources and information made available. We are passionate about supporting the health, safety, and recovery of ALL people in King County."

 Debra Baker, Speaker's Bureau Lead 








Recurring webinars
We hold regular webinars with various groups to provide updated information about COVID-19. Check back to see new weekly or biweekly webinars we will add soon.
Spanish webinar series
Every Tuesday at 5:30pm. Please email Gurdeep Gill and ggill@kingcounty.gov for a Zoom link. 
The purpose of the call is to facilitate a conversation between community members and Public Health — Seattle & King County. This is an opportunity for Public Health to hear from trusted community advocates and to provide resources about COVID-19 prevention as well as tools on how to deal with the stay-at-home order. The calls are coordinated by native Spanish speakers who are familiar with the culture and are established community members as well as public servants. 






Penny Lara
 Latinx Community Response Team

Giselle Zapata-Garcia
Latinx Community Response Team



During these challenging and uncertain times, it is imperative to establish connections with all communities, but especially communities who historically the system has failed to serve.
Right now, immigrant communities are facing so many additional uncertainties, so it is our duty to eliminate language barriers and provide crucial information in culturally relevant and accessible ways.

    In the long run, this investment can save lives and will result in a thriving and healthier community." 

 Penny Lara and Giselle Zapata-Garcia, Co-Leads of the Latinx Community Response Team. 






Last Updated July 5, 2020    

 Share
 Tweet
 Email
 Print






