Scraping from http://www.forsyth.cc/covidupdate/#casecount














                6/26/2020 COVID-19 Update (Novel Coronavirus)

                                The Forsyth County Department of Public Health is working with the North Carolina
                                Department of Health and Human Services (NCDHHS),
                                the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), other local health departments and health care
                                providers as well as community partners including the Winston-Salem/Forsyth County
                                Emergency Management Office to respond to COVID-19
                            
Testing Information and Locations 1
1 The sites
                                    listed provide testing for COVID-19. Some require an appointment and/or a referral
                                    from a health care provider. Locations are subject to change.
FAQ for Phase 2
Guidance for Phase 2
Mental
                                        Health Crisis Resources COVID-19 (English)
Mental Health
                                        Crisis Resources COVID-19 (SPANISH)

For COVID-19 U.S. case information go to the
                                Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website.
Recommendations for All North Carolinians: Click here.
Click here for what do if you are sick
People at high risk include anyone who:

Is 65 years of age or older
                                
Lives in a nursing home or long-term care facility
Have a high-risk condition that includes:
chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma
heart disease with complications
compromised immune system
severe obesity - body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher
other underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled,
                                            such as diabetes, renal failure or liver disease



Pregnant women should be monitored closely since they are known to be at risk for severe
                                viral illness. However, data so far on COVID-19 has not shown increased risk for severe
                                COVID-19 illness. While children are generally at lower risk for severe infection, some
                                studies indicate a higher risk among infants. Learn more from the CDC.
Individuals, Families and Communities

NCDHHS recommends everyone continue taking precautions to protect themselves and
                                    others from the spread of respiratory illnesses, which includes COVID-19.
                                    
Wash hands frequently with soap and water, and for at least 20 seconds each
                                            time.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands.
Avoid close contact with people who are ill.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.
Do not reuse tissue after coughing, sneezing, or blowing your nose.
Clean and disinfect surfaces that are frequently touched.
Use a cloth face covering when you may not be able to keep 6 feet between
                                            yourself and other people.


It is also good practice to start being more aware of the number of times a day your
                                    hands touch an object or hard surface and then touch your face without being washed.
                                    Limiting the exposure of your nose, mouth and eyes to unwashed hands can help to
                                    protect from the spread of all germs and illnesses.
Have a plan in case you need to miss work or other responsibilities due to personal
                                    illness or to care for a sick family member.
For pregnant women and children, review
                                            the information and guidance available on the CDC website.
Breastfeeding Guidance


For more information on COVID-19, please visit the CDC’s website at cdc.gov/coronavirus.
                                North Carolina resources can be found on the Division of Public Health website at ncdhhs.gov/coronavirus.

If you have questions or concerns, call the COVID-19 Helpline toll free at
                                1-866-462-3821. To submit questions online, go to www.ncpoisoncontrol.org and
                                select “chat.”














                        Click Here, Call Here, Before Coming Here
Forsyth County social distancing changes and online services





Forsyth County Government is taking actions to practice social distancing in
                        response to CDC recommendations on novel coronavirus (COVID-19). All county departments remain
                        open to serve the public, but residents are encouraged to use the county’s online services,
                        found at www.forsyth.cc, or call to see if their needs can
                        be met without coming to a county office. here are changes individual departments are making and
                        online resources they have for the public
Animal Services

                            Beginning Tuesday, March 24, the Forsyth Humane Society is requiring appointments for all
                            transactions. Please call the Country Club location at (336) 721-1303 if you are interested
                            in
                            adopting a pet. Please call the University North location at (336) 955-1750 to arrange a
                            foster pick
                            up, reclaim a pet or surrender an animal.
                        

                            If you are looking for a lost pet, please check the Forsyth Humane Society’s website and
                            view the
                            stray animals. If you believe you see your lost animal, call to make an appointment.
                        

                            For 
                                licensing payments,
                                you can find those forms here
                            . Please submit the forms with payment by mail or wait until
                            Animal Services is able to resume normal operations to make your payment. During this
                            period, Animal
                            Services will be very lenient on late or unpaid County Pet Licenses.
                        
N.C. Cooperative Extension

                            N.C. Cooperative Extension’s building is no longer open to the public. Agents and staff are
                            still
                            providing advice, plant, weed, and insect identification via phone and email. Informational
                            sessions
                            are also being held via online platforms. You can find those events on our calendar
                            http://forsyth.cc/eventcalendars/forsythcountyces.aspx.
                            To contact the N.C. Cooperative Extension
                            staff, please visit https://forsyth.cc/CES/staff.aspx and
                            contact the
                            appropriate agent.
                        
Community and Economic Development

                            Most Community and Economic Development staff are working from home. Those applying for
                            housing
                            rehabilitation, homeownership, and Small Business IDA programs should call 336-703-2680 so
                            staff can
                            help direct them on how to apply online. For those without internet access, staff can mail
                            them the
                            application form.
                        
County Commissioners

                            County Commissioner meetings will be broadcast live at 2pm on WSTV 13.
                            To comply with Governor's Office guidance on social distancing and indoor mass gatherings, 
                            the public may participate remotely by contacting the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners, 
                            Ms. Ashleigh Sloop, at (336)703-2020 at least 24-hours before "Regular Business Meetings" 
                            of the County Commissioners. (County Commissioner "Briefing Sessions" do not include public 
                            participation, only "Regular Business Meetings" where voting may occur.).

Elections

                            The Forsyth County Board of Elections will re-open the office to the general public
                            beginning Monday,
                            May 11, at 8 a.m. As part of Forsyth County’s efforts to take preventative steps to protect
                            the
                            health and safety of employees and the public, Elections staff will be wearing masks and
                            gloves when
                            assisting customers. Voters coming into our office are asked to respect the 6 feet
                            distancing mark
                            placed on the floor in front of the counter to prevent the potential spread of COVID-19. For
                            additional information. please call (336) 703-2800, email fcvotes@forsyth.cc or visit www.fcvotes.com.
                        
Environmental Assistance and Protection

                            The office’s sale of radon kits is temporarily discontinued, but staff can help citizens
                            identify
                            ways to order them online if they call the office at (336) 703-2440.
                        

                            Environmental Assistance and Protection pollen sampling has been suspended indefinitely, but
                            a daily
                            forecast is being posted on www.forsyth.cc/EAP/pollen.aspx
                            and on Facebook
                            and Twitter by
                            Forsyth Pollen until operations can return to normal. EAP is using 20 years worth of data to
                            create
                            a good baseline for what is normal this time of year coupled with both weather and pollen
                            forecasting experience and regional observations to create a same day forecast that should
                            give a
                            rough estimate of pollen levels in the Triad.
                        

                            We request that all potential applicants for asbestos demolition/renovation permits call the
                            office
                            instead of visiting in person. All regulatory reporting should be submitted to the agency
                            electronically via email.
                        
Fire

                            Fire code inspections are now restricted to construction enforcement, permits, imminent
                            hazard
                            inspections, and inspections that can be done observing the CDC recommendations.
                        
General Services

                            All pick-ups for Hall of Justice ID Badges will be suspended until further
                            notice.
                        
Human Resources

                            County employment opportunities are listed online
                                here and
                            applications are only accepted online. For more information, call 336-703-2400.
                        
Library

                            Anyone with a valid Forsyth County
                            Public Library card can reserve books and audiovisual materials online at www.forsythlibrary.org or by calling their
                            local branch
                            for later pickup in front of each library. Beginning on Monday, June 15, the To-Go Library hours will be:
                        

Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m.-7 p.m.
Friday, 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Saturday, 10 a.m.-2 p.m.


                            Beginning on Monday, June 29, all ten library branches plan to reopen to the public, Monday-Friday from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Customers will be expected to wear masks (which will be provided for those that don’t have one) and practice social distancing guidelines. There will be 30-minute computer appointments offered at Southside, Central, Lewisville, Walkertown, Malloy/Jordan East Winston Heritage Center and the library’s bookmobile. Wi-fi will be available at all branch locations.
                        

                            You can access the Forsyth County Public Library’s online publications here.
                            The
                            main library number is 336-703-BOOK (2665).
                        
MapForsyth
MapForsyth is not accepting walk-in requests at the moment. We are still able to process all mapping 
                            and addressing requests by phone (336) 703-2627 or email mapforsyth@mapforsyth.org.
Parks and Recreation

                            Our parks remain open and are operating on a normal schedule, but the following are now
                            closed:
                            playgrounds, basketball courts, volleyball courts and boat rentals. Groups larger than 10
                            people are
                            not allowed, and park visitors must maintain proper social distancing.
                        

                            The Champions Room Grill at the
                            Tanglewood Clubhouse is now takeout only. You can make reservations for parks facilities
                                here
                            or call the Parks office (336) 703-2500. Tanglewood Park can be reached at (336) 703-6400
                            and its
                            site is www.forsyth.cc/Parks/Tanglewood.
                        

                            The Manor House at Tanglewood Park is only taking reservations over the phone for now in
                            order to
                            provide the necessary protective measures for the guest. The number for reservations is
                            336-703-6494.
                        
Due to COVID-19, the Tanglewood Pool operation has been suspended until further notice.
Public Health

                            Forsyth County Public Health has a COVID-19 hotline, 336-582-0800, to answer the public's
                            questions
                            about the virus.
                        

WIC- All in-person WIC classes and Nutrition education have been suspended
                            Participants are
                            encouraged to access online classes via wichealth.org.
                            Those
                            without internet access should call the
                            WIC office at 336-703-3333 to request a live class over the phone. Please be prepared to
                            confirm
                            your telephone
                            number and address.
                        

                            Physical presence of babies under 2 months of age has been temporarily waived, so they are
                            not
                            required to come to the office. WIC employees will still need all the information from the
                            guardian.
                        

                            All weight checks can be delayed by one month and benefits can be loaded without you having
                            to come
                            to the office. Remember to call and let the WIC office know if you cannot make your next
                            appointment.
                        

Environmental Health- Environmental Health encourages all customers to mail
                            completed applications,
                            along with payment by check, to Forsyth County Department of Public Health, 799 Highland
                            Avenue,
                            Winston Salem, NC 27101.
                        

                            Complete Onsite Water and Wastewater related material will be put in queue as of the
                            postmark date.
                            If material is incomplete then the entire package, including payment, will be returned.
                        

                            If you are uncertain as to the best way to deliver material, please call 336-703-3225 for
                            guidance.
                        

Dental Clinic- The Cleveland Avenue Dental Clinic is postponing
                            non-urgent, elective treatments and is only taking emergency visits.
                            Elective treatments and immunocompromised patients are being rescheduled.
                            The clinic can be reached at 336-703-3090.
                        

Restaurant Inspections- Following the latest direction from NC DHHS,
                            Forsyth County Public Health has transitioned from routine inspections of
                            restaurants and bars to visiting establishments that are continuing to
                            operate for the purpose of providing education and guidance. Complaint
                            inspections will continue as usual.
                        

Vital Records- Starting on June 1, we will resume processing of Home Births' birth certificates 
                            on Wednesdays only, by appointment only. To make an appointment the required "Home Birth 
                            documents package" should be completed beforehand, please contact Keisha Hayes at 336-703-3108 
                            or by email at hayeska@forsyth.cc to make an appointment or if there are any questions.
                        
The Public Health Department can be reached at 336-703-3100.
Register of Deeds

                            The office will continue to operate under normal business hours, but with some changes to
                            help
                            minimize person-to-person interaction. Couples looking to obtain a Marriage License need to
                            make an
                            appointment by calling 336-703-2700, and only parties to the marriage and interpreters
                            should come
                            into the office to complete the process. Only the requesting party for a Marriage License
                            should come to the office. Customers are encouraged to apply for a Marriage License and request 
                            copies of vital records (birth,death and marriage certificates) online at 
                            forsyth.cc/rod. For information on Land Records go to 
                            forsythdeeds.com.
                        

                            Out-of-County Birth requests, (EBRS) Amendments and Legitimations will be by appointment
                            from 8
                            a.m.-3 p.m. Documentation and proofs must be pre-approved.This may require more than one
                            appointment.
                        
The office will no longer offer Thank-A-Veteran Discount cards at this time.
Sheriff’s Office

                            The Sheriff’s Office has made changes at the Forsyth County Detention Center,
                            including restricting public visitation except for attorneys, suspending all inmate
                            programs, and
                            checking detention staff and new arrestees for fever and signs of respiratory distress. The
                            Sheriff’s Office number is 336-917-7001.
                        

                            The Sheriff's Office will no longer be performing fingerprinting services until further
                            notice. The
                            office is still processing handgun permits, including concealed handgun permits (and will
                            only
                            perform fingerprint services for those permits).
                        
Social Services

                            Effective Monday, April 6, 2020, the Department of Social Services will be closed to the
                            public. The
                            entryway will have paper applications for services available for pick-up and drop off as
                            well as the
                            ability to drop off a message/change request/call back request. Anyone needing to check on
                            mail
                            received at PO Box 999 will be able to do so between 8:30-9:30 am Monday through Friday
                            only. Please
                            read below for instructions on specific programs.
                        

                            Many service lines are implementing modifications to processes to allow the public to access
                            information and services through alternative means (when possible):
                        


                                All Medicaid and Food and Nutrition Services Applicants can apply on-line at epass.nc.gov, by
                                mail, by phone at 336-703-3800, or by picking up and dropping off paper applications at
                                the
                                building entrance. If you apply online, you may be able to upload the verifications we
                                need to
                                this system. Once we receive your application a caseworker will follow-up with you
                                within 1
                                business day to gather the information for your household and provide further
                                verification
                                instructions.
                            

                                If you already have active Medicaid, Medicaid Transportation or Food and Nutrition
                                Services and
                                you need to report a change, submit documentation, or have questions concerning your
                                active
                                case, you may call (336) 703-3800, or send a fax to 336-727-2842 or 336-727-3130, or
                                send an
                                email to customercare-user@forsyth.cc.
                                The
                                Adult Medicaid fax number is 336-727-8491.
                            

                                All Child Support customers may call 1-800-992-9457 for case-related information, status
                                of
                                court cases, update case information, and give information. Customers may also call
                                336-703-3801
                                for case information, court information, update the case, and to have a message sent to
                                their
                                caseworker. To access case information, apply for Child Support, and access resources
                                online at
                                ncchildsupport.com/ecoa/parentsIndex.jsp


                                All NC Health Choice Fee payments, Health Care for the Working Disabled Fee payments,
                                Program
                                Integrity (Fraud) repayments, or Child Support Application Fees can be made via mail-in
                                of a
                                Check, Money Order or Certified Check. Please mail all payments to: Forsyth County
                                Department of
                                Social Services, 741 Highland Ave., Winston-Salem, NC 27101
                            

                                For Assistance or Questions regarding any Adult Services, please contact the office at
                                336-703-3501
                            

Protective Services

Adult Protective Services - To report instances of abuse, neglect or exploitation of adults
                            18 years
                            of age and older, please call 336-703-3503.
                        

Adult Care Facility Complaints - Please call 336-703-3501 to make any complaints regarding
                            Assisted
                            Living Facilities.
                        

Child Protective Services (CPS) - Our CPS Intake hotline is available 24-hours per day, 7
                            days per
                            week. If you suspect abuse or neglect, please contact our intake hotline at 336-703-ABUSE or
                            336-703-2287.
                        
Temporarily Suspended Services

                            The following services are closed to the public until further notice: Onsite DNA testing,
                            Services
                            through The Employment Lab, Child Support Group Appointments and Program Integrity In-person
                            Interviews are canceled and participants will be contacted by phone or US Mail.
                        
TIPPS/MAPP Foster Parent training classes and Foster Parent Interest meetings
Tax

                            Collections will reopen to the general public beginning June 1. All walk-in visitors needing 
                            property tax assistance will be helped in the Tax Payment Collections section of the office. 
                            Social distancing will be enforced and PPE is strongly encouraged. 

                            Tax payments
                            may be made 1) online, 2) through its 201 N. Chestnut Street dropbox, or 3) by appointment.
                            To pay
                            online, please click here: http://forsyth.cc/Tax/taxbill.aspx.
                            To make an appointment, please call (336) 703-2300.
                        

                            You can research bills or pay bills online, view
                            
                                detailed property information for real
                                estate
                            ,
                            and access the Tax Parcel Viewer on the
                            Tax
                            Department’s
                            website.
                        

                            Payments can also be made over the phone by calling 1-877-215-0165. You will need to have
                            your bill
                            number and there is a convenience fee for payments over the phone. Payments can be mailed to
                            Forsyth
                            County Tax Collector, P.O. Box 82, Winston-Salem, NC 27102.
                        

                            Residents can call the Tax Customer Care line at 336-703-2300. You can email requests for
                            tax data to
                            taxdata@forsyth.cc











                        Ask Questions About the Stay-At-Home Order
Frequently
                            Asked Questions for Executive Order No. 138









Forsyth CountyStay-at-Home Order Helpline
                                    
(336) 464-7800

Monday through Friday9 a.m. - 5 p.m.







Forsyth CountyCOVID-19 Helpline
(336) 582-0800

Monday through Friday9 a.m. - 5 p.m.





Do you have questions about the Governor's Safer at Home Order?
Residents and businesses within Bethania (336) 922-0434,
                                    Clemmons (336) 766-7511, Lewisville
                                    (336) 945-5558, Rural Hall (336)
                                        969-6856, Winston-Salem 311, and King (336) 983-8265, please refer your questions to those
                                    municipalities.
Ask your question below in detail, and you will receive a return email within one
                                    business
                                    day,
                                    depending on the volume of questions.
To speak with someone, call (336) 464-7800 Monday
                                    through
                                    Friday,
                                    from 9 a.m.-5 p.m.









































Bethania
(336) 922-0434








Clemmons
(336) 766-7511








King
(336) 983-8265








Lewisville
(336) 945-5558








Rural Hall
(336) 969-6856








Winston-Salem
311









Scraping from http://forsyth.cc/publichealth/documents/Mental_Health_Crisis_Resources_COVID_19_English.pdf


A PDF here.
