


Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/city-departments/license-commission/#brocktonrestaurantreopening





License Commission
The License Commission issues all licenses to sell alcoholic beverages, common victualer, innholder, used car dealer (Class I, II, III), lodging house, automatic amusement devices, and entertainment (alcoholic beverage licenses and common victualers).
The license commission consists of five members and two alternates.  These individuals are residents of the city who are appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council.  The commission operates in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission, and applicable city ordinance and license commission regulations.
Brockton Restaurant Reopening
Pursuant to the Governor's June 2, 2020 Order No. 35, the City of Brockton is accepting applications for the temporary extension of restaurants to provide for outdoor table service.  Once reviewed and approved by the City’s Outdoor Dining Advisory Board, which is made up of representatives from the City’s planning, public safety, and inspectional departments, restaurants will be able to offer expanded outdoor dining options under Phase II of the Commonwealth's reopening plan.  This expedited application process will significantly decrease the timeframe for extending existing restaurants into outdoor spaces.
To apply, establishments should email a completed Application for Temporary Extension of Premises for Outdoor Table Service and required attachments to outdoordining@cobma.us. 
Please be advised that all licensees must comply with the City's Outdoor Dining Rules"
Outdoor Dining Rules
Restaurants wishing to utilize public ways for outdoor table service must also complete the Supplemental Application for Temporary Outdoor Table Service on a Public Way.
Completed applications can also be submitted via U.S. mail to:
Outdoor Dining Advisory Board
City of Brockton Law Department
45 School Street- City Hall Brockton, MA 02301
As provided in the Application, the following documents must be submitted for applications to be deemed complete:

Completed Application for Temporary Extension of Premises for Outdoor Table Service.
Proof of ownership, lease, license rights or permission to utilize the area proposed for Outdoor Table Service.
A completed written COVID-19 Control Plan (State of MA mandatory self-certification form).
A detailed floor plan drawn to scale depicting the proposed area for outdoor table service.  We recommend that restaurants also attach photos, drawings, and google satellite images depicting the proposed plan.
Proof of Insurance: Workers Compensation OR an affidavit that the establishment has no employees.
Proof of Insurance: Liquor Liability – including the extended premises areas (if serving alcohol).
Sidewalk/Street dining only: Complete Supplemental Application for Temporary Outdoor Table Service on a Public Way.

Thank you in advance for your cooperation as we navigate through this new process.  Any questions can be directed to outdoordining@cobma.us

 


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/covid19/





City of Brockton PPE PSA
Playgrounds
Effective today (june 25, 2020), all city playgrounds in Brockton are open per order of Mayor Robert F. Sullivan. Residents are asked to follow the guidelines posted about safety and social distancing. City playgrounds were previously closed in March due to COVID-19.
Reopening Brockton Restaurants
License Commission Restaurant Reopening
COVID-19 Testing
Testing Information
The Massachusetts Department of Public Health is asking for your assistance with the Commonwealth's efforts to provide Massachusetts residents with critical information about the statewide COVID-19 contact tracing program.
We are requesting that test centers display signage and distribute handouts about contact tracing activities conducted as part of the Commonwelth's efforts to reduce the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic in Massachusetts. Every person testing positive for COVID-19 will receive a follow-up call from the Community Tracing Collaborative (CTC) or your local Board of Health as a matter of routine. It is critical that they understand the importance of this call. By providing information in advance as residents are going through the testing process, you ensure that they know what to expect if they get a call from the CTC or their local Board of Health.
Signage should be displayed in a prominent location, readily visible by residents arriving for testing. Residents should also receive one of three information handouts depending on their situation: one is for residents who do not receive rapid test results on site, one for those with a positive rapid test result, and one for those with a negative test result.
We request that testing centers print the materials for display and distribution. If you require assistance with obtaining printed copies, please contact Ian Cutler with the CTC (icutler@covid19.pih.org).
A Message from Mayor Robert F. Sullivan 
As an extension to my March 16, 2020 Emergency Declaration and in accordance with new guidance from Governor Baker and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH), the City is taking the following measures currently. These measures are being taken to balance the ability to continue to provide important services and to protect the health and safety of the residents of Brockton. These measures can be extended, shortened, or changed as the City receives additional guidance from the state and federal government.
CURFEW
As of today, June 8, 2020, I have issued an executive order rescinding the City’s public health curfew as a result of Governor Baker’s executive order and a sustained trend of improvement in public health data.
Rescinding Curfew Order
MASK USE
I am always advising masks to be worn outside of homes and individual apartments where social distancing is not possible, including inside essential businesses such as grocery stores and pharmacies. Activities that do not allow social distancing, such as contact sports, should be avoided.
As of the close of business on Friday, April 3, services, and closures are as follows:
CITY HALL BUILDINGS/OFFICES
All Brockton City Buildings will be closed to the public until further notice. This includes City Hall, the Council on Aging/Senior Center, the DPW Building, and all branches of the Public Library. Access will be limited to staff only. For essential City business, Residents can call the Mayor’s Office at 508-580-7123 to set up an appointment to come into City Hall or any other city building.
CITY BILLS
Please consider paying any bills due to the City through the U.S. Mail or using the City’s bill pay webpage https://brockton.ma.us/online-services/pay-a-bill. Additionally, residents can utilize the drop box located outside of City Hall for payment of bills. Any envelope sized documents directed to City Hall departments may be left in the drop box. Staff will be available by phone and email in all departments during regular business hours to provide information and answer questions.
Dog license deadlines have been extended to June 30, 2020.
Water bills will now be due July 5th.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS
All future events and meetings in City buildings and properties will be postponed until further notice. The Governor’s Executive Order suspended portions of the Open Meeting Law to allow for remote participation for boards and committees. The City is actively working to provide boards, committees and residents with remote capability that allows for participation at home. We will provide information on how to access future meetings when it becomes available.
PUBLIC SAFETY
Police and Fire emergency response will continue to operate as usual. However, administrative services have been amended as follows:
- Fire Stations are closed to the public. Please call 508-588-0585.
- The Police Station will remain open. However, we ask that if you need to visit the police station you call first at 508-941-0200.
In the event of an emergency, please call 9-1-1.
SCHOOLS
All Brockton Public Schools will be closed for the remaining academic year. School Buildings and playgrounds are closed to the public. Please visit https://www.bpsma.org/ for additional information.


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/business/covid-19-response/



COVID-19 Response
A message from Mayor Sullivan
The COVID-19 health and economic crisis is causing untold harm to businesses throughout the City. To help business owners get the best information about the available economic assistance programs, the City has partnered the Metro South Chamber of Commerce to host weekly web conferences with the U.S. Small Business Administration and the Massachusetts Office of Business Development to bring Brockton businesses the most up to date information available. These web conferences/calls are free of charge.  A list of resources is available below and on the Chamber’s webpage.  These next few weeks and months are going to be difficult. I wish the best for you, your families and your businesses.
Please do not hesitate to contact my office with additional questions at 508-580-7123.
For a copy of the Mayor's letter to Brockton businesses click here.
Reopening Massachusetts
The Baker-Polito Administration’s comprehensive plan to safely reopen the Massachusetts economy, get people back to work, and ease social restrictions while minimizing the health impacts of COVID-19.

Learn more about Reopening Massachusetts
Download the Reopening MA report
Four-Phase Approach
Readiness and Capabilities Dashboard
When Can I Open My Business
General business guidance
Information to help businesses meet the self-certification requirement to reopen. All businesses must meet these requirements before reopening. Businesses operating to provide Essential Services, as defined in the Governor's March 23, 2020 Executive Order, updated on March 31, April 28 and May 15, may remain open and have until May 25, 2020 to comply with these mandatory safety standards.
Mandatory Safety Standards for Workplaces
COVID-19 control plan template
Compliance attestation poster
Employer poster
Worker poster
Find Supplies
Sector-specific protocols and best practices
Mandatory safety standards and recommended best practices for sectors that are eligible to open in Phase 1. Additional sector guidance for future phases will be issued at a later date. Businesses operating to provide Essential Services, as defined in the Governor's March 23, 2020 Executive Order, updated on March 31, April 28 and May 15, may remain open and have until May 25, 2020 to comply with their industry’s sector-specific protocols (if applicable).
Construction – Permitted to reopen on May 18, 2020
Manufacturing – Permitted to reopen on May 18, 2020
Office spaces – Permitted to reopen on May 25, 2020
Hair salons and barbershops – Permitted to reopen on May 25, 2020
Restaurants – To be Determined
Retail Stores, including stores in malls – To be Determined
Massachusetts Equitable PPP Access Initiative
The Massachusetts Equitable PPP Access Initiative is committed to providing timely and equitable access to the SBA Paycheck Protect Program (PPP) loans for underbanked businesses and historically disadvantaged demographic groups, including people of color and women. As part of this initiative, a coalition of banks are committing to making PPP loans directly, and a network of CDFIs are providing technical assistance with loan applications. If you are a minority-owned business and meet the criteria below, we encourage you to apply through this initiative.
Criteria:
1. You are a minority-owned business, sole proprietor or independent contractor operating in Massachusetts
2. You do not have a banking relationship with an SBA PPP lender.
3. You can complete the PPP application and have access to payroll, benefits and owner compensation records.
Brockton Business Survey: How is COVID-19 Affecting your business?
We need your help to understand how COVID-19 is affecting Brockton Businesses.   Please take a moment to take this brief survey and tell us how the City of Brockton and its partners can help you, your business and its employees.
English 
Spanish 
Portuguese 
French 
Brockton is doing everything it can to coordinate with state and federal partners to make sure local businesses have access to the information they need to make the decisions they need to take to respond to this heath and economic crisis.  Below is a list of resources for you to consider
SBA – Economic Injury Disaster Loan
The SBA is no longer accepting applications for this loan program as all their funds have been committed.   However, should new funding become available you should be ready to apply immediately.  The Economic Injury Disaster Loan Program (EIDL) can provide up to $2 million of financial assistance (actual loan amounts are based on amount of economic injury) to small businesses or private, non-profit organizations that suffer substantial economic injury as a result of the declared disaster, regardless of whether the applicant sustained physical damage. Furthermore an EIDL Loan Advance of up to $10,000. This advance will provide economic relief to businesses that are currently experiencing a temporary loss of revenue. Funds will be made available following a successful application. This loan advance will be forgiven.
SBA – Paycheck Protection Program
Congress has committed another $355 billion for small business. Don't wait. You should apply immediately.  The Paycheck Protection Program is a loan designed to provide a direct incentive for small businesses to keep their workers on the payroll.  SBA will forgive loans if all employees are kept on the payroll for eight weeks and the money is used for payroll, rent, mortgage interest, or utilities.
Symbium, a private software firm from San Francisco, has developed a PPP calculator and resource site https://ppp.symbium.com/.  The site is free and easy to use.
SBA – Dept Relieve
The SBA will automatically pay the principal, interest, and fees of current 7(a), 504, and microloans for a period of six months. The SBA will also automatically pay the principal, interest, and fees of new 7(a), 504, and microloans issued prior to September 27, 2020.
MassHire – Rapid Response
For companies and workers facing layoff as the result of COVID-19 MassHire offers Rapid Response. Rapid Response is a federally mandated program through the Workforce Innovation Opportunities Act (WIOA) designed to assist businesses and employees experiencing a layoff or closing. Before you are separated from your company, the MassHire Rapid Response Team will provide you with options prior to a layoff and refer you to a MassHire Career Center of your choice.   Rapid Response Presentation
Metro South Chamber of Commerce
The Metro South Chamber of Commerce is diligently recording updates coming from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Small Business Administration, MOBD, U.S. Chamber, SCORE, and more business resource organizations as we all come together to offer support for our business community.  The webinar series is hosted by Mayor Sullivan and Chris Cooney.
Register for the June 5, 2020 live web-conference
May 22, 2020 webinar
May 15, 2020 webinar
May 8, 2020 webinar
May 1, 2020 webinar
April 24, 2020 webinar
April 17, 2020 webinar
April 10, 2020 webinar
April 3, 2020 webinar
March 27, 2020
Mass Department of Unemployment Insurance – WorkShare
If your company needs to reduce payroll costs because of a temporary decline in business, the WorkShare program is your alternative to layoffs. WorkShare allows an employer to reduce the hours of work for employees in an entire company (or a small unit or department), and the employees receive unemployment benefits to supplement their reduced wages.
SCORE - Coronavirus Small Business Resource Hub
SCORE is committed to helping businesses like yours through the unprecedented challenges from the coronavirus outbreak.  And SCORE local technical assistance can be found here.
Massachusetts Small Business Development Center 
The Massachusetts Small Business Development Center Network provides free and confidential business advice and free and low-cost training to prospective and existing entrepreneurs in Massachusetts. In order to better serve you, business advisors are available by appointment only.
To request confidential assistance, click here
SEED (South East Economic Development) Corporation
SEED operates four different loan programs, which provide funds in amounts ranging from $1,000 to $5.5 million. The programs are defined by both the dollar amount and use of the proceeds sought by the borrower – except for the Micro Loan Program which often provides loans to start up businesses and those not yet “bankable”.
SEED’s financing programs listed below are designed to work in conjunction with the lending including commercial institutions in the region
The Empowerment Grant for Small Businesses
The Empowerment Grant for Small Businesses is here to support small business owners that serve Massachusetts Gateway Cities and are affected by COVID-19 impacts. Applicants can request up to $2,500 in grants from the Office of Economic Empowerment. Application deadline is May 29, 2020. To learn more about the application, please visit https://www.mass.gov/how-to/the-empowerment-grant-for-small-businesses
Greater Brockton Workforce Board
The Brockton Business Assistance program is designated for businesses experiencing financial hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  This program will aid small businesses in job creation & job retention and to maintain business continuity.  Funded through the City of Brockton’s Community Development Block Grant program and managed by MassHire Greater Brockton Workforce Board and Brockton Redevelopment Authority, Applicants may request up to $10,000.00 for the proposed need.  Applicants can utilize funds to support initiatives that will allow them to continue operating during and/or after the COVID-19 pandemic. Business Assistance Program (Free Google account is required to submit application).
The grant funding may be used for the following critical needs:

Expenses that would not have usually occurred without the COVID-19 pandemic
Business continuity assessment and planning
Marketing, such as paid digital advertisements during and post COVID-19 pandemic
General business continuity expenses
Payroll or employee training
Or any other applicable expenses incurred since State of Emergency declared in MA on March 10, 2020

A Bidder's Conference will be held Monday, June 8th via Zoom, Register here. Review of applications will begin with completed applications as of Monday, June 15, 2020. Applications will continue to be reviewed on an “as received” basis until all funds are expended or October 31, 2020, whichever is first. Disbursement of funds will start on July 1, 2020.
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/page1





Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/covid-19-online-recovery-resources/




COVID 19 Online Recovery Resources 

ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS:

AA Online meetings

NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS:

Virtual NA meetings online
NA meeting search

SMART RECOVERY:

SMART Recovery online community
Private, convenient, online recovery support







Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/pool-openings/




Pool Openings 

Manning Pool opens Friday, July 10, 2020. Capacity is 65 guests. Guests are required to provide name, address and contact info for entry. Lockers and locker rooms will be closed so guests must arrive in swimsuits. $2 per person entry fee, $1 for 65 and older. Masks are required. Social Distancing is required.  No refunds offered.  Two sessions per day, 11 AM to 2 PM and 3 PM to 6 PM.  470 Forest Ave, Brockton.
Cosgrove Pool opens July 17, 2020. Capacity is 65 guests. Guests are required to provide name, address and contact info for entry. Lockers and locker rooms will be closed so guests must arrive in swimsuits. No fee for entry. Masks are required. Social Distancing is required.  Two sessions per day, 11 AM to 2 PM and 3 PM to 6 PM.  270 Crescent St., Brockton.
 
  






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/library-temporary-hours-of-operation/




Library Temporary Hours of Operation 








Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-farmers-market-open/




Brockton Farmers Market Open 

The Brockton Farmers Market is now open through the end of October.  It’s open at City Hall Plaza every Friday from 10:00 Am until 2:00 PM.







Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-veterans-services-selected-for-reusable-bag-program/




Brockton Veteran’s Services selected for Reusable Bag Program 

Brockton Veteran’s Services has been selected for the “Give Back Where it Counts Reusable Bag Program” for the month of August by Shaw’s Supermarket.







Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/west-elm-street-closed/




West Elm Street Closed 

IMPORTANT NOTICE
BEGINNING 
JUNE 26, 2020
WEST ELM STREET
WILL BE CLOSED TO ALL TRAFFIC
FROM 
GODDARD ROAD  
to
NEWBURY STREET 
AS 
AQUALINE CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
will be REPLACING the CULVERT
****Please seek alternate routes during this period to avoid 
Delays and prevent vehicle damages.****
Detours for these streets will be set in the field by the Brockton Police Department.
TRAFFIC LANES WILL REMAIN CLOSED
***THIS WILL BE IN EFFECT FOR TWO (2) MONTHS
OR UNTIL PROJECT IS COMPLETED***
We are sorry for the inconvenience.
City of Brockton
Department of Public Works






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/city-playgrounds-open/




City Playgrounds Open 

Effective today (june 25, 2020), all city playgrounds in Brockton are open per order of Mayor Robert F. Sullivan. Residents are asked to follow the guidelines posted about safety and social distancing. City playgrounds were previously closed in March due to COVID-19.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/have-you-attended-a-large-gathering-get-tested/




Have you attended a large gathering? GET TESTED! 

Have you attended a large gathering? Get Tested at no cost to you.
Wednesday, June 17th and Thursday, June 18th
Over 50 sites across the commonwealth. Go to Mass.Gov/GetTested







Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-police-reminder-fireworks-are-illegal-in-massachusetts/




Brockton Police Reminder: Fireworks Are Illegal In Massachusetts 

As a reminder, Massachusetts General Law Chapter 148, s39, makes it is illegal for private citizens to use, possess, or sell fireworks in Massachusetts, or to purchase them legally elsewhere and then transport them into the state. Those found in possession of fireworks may receive a fine up to $100, however, other city ordinance violations may apply (disturbing the peace, being in the park after dark, etc).
We have responded to numerous calls recently reporting fireworks. Our evening shift is working to locate and identify the person(s) responsible. If you hear or see fireworks in your neighborhood, you are asked to contact our dispatch at 508-941-0200 or 911 in an emergency. If you wish to report the selling or purchasing of fireworks, you may submit this information anonymously on seeclickfix located on Brockton.ma.us






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/covid-19-testing-update/




COVID-19 Testing Update 

As of this coming Monday, June 8th, the Brockton High School COVID-19 testing site, staffed by Signature Healthcare/Brockton Hospital and Brockton Neighborhood Health Center at 470 Forest Ave., will be available only on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 9 am to 4 pm, to anyone regardless of symptoms including non-Brockton residents. Patients must call 1-844-483-7819 to schedule an appointment.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/detour-notice/




Detour Notice 

DETOUR NOTICE
Please be advised
EJ PAVING
Working for
Columbia Gas of Massachusetts
Will be
MILLING AND PAVING
NORTH MAIN STREET,
Including
MAY AVE., OVERLOOK AVE., HOMESITE ST., AND WILLOW STREET 
 Work is scheduled to begin MONDAY,
JUNE 8, 2020.
Access and intersections will be
LIMITED
to all thru traffic.
Due to the road work expect delays when traveling in this area.
The gas company project is expected
to take several weeks, weather permitting.
Detours for these streets are to be set in the field by the Brockton Police Department.
****Please seek alternate routes during this period to avoid delays
and prevent vehicle damages as the
roadway will be under construction.****
 We are sorry for the inconvenience.
 City of Brockton Department of Public Works






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/page2





Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/covid-19-testing/




COVID-19 Testing 

The Brockton High School COVID-19 testing site, staffed by Signature Healthcare/Brockton Hospital and Brockton Neighborhood Health Center at 470 Forest Ave., is now available Monday through Friday, 9 am to 4 pm, to anyone regardless of symptoms including non-Brockton residents. Patients must call 1-844-483-7819 to schedule an appointment.
COVID Testing Site Instructions_English
COVID Testing Site Instructions Spanish
COVID Testing Site Instructions Portuguese
COVID Testing Site Instructions Haitian Creole



A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/mayors-video/




Mayor’s Video 

See the Mayor’s Latest Video Here: Mayor’s Video






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/century-bank-excise-tax-errors/




Century Bank Excise Tax Errors 

Yesterday, the City of Brockton was notified by officials at Century Bank of a March error in which 833 excise tax payment checks were not properly processed. They are now being processed by the bank and residents will not be charged any late fees. The City and Century Bank apologize for any inconvenience. If you experience any bank fees due to this delay, please contact the City’s Tax Collector at 508-580-7130 as Century Bank has agreed to cover any fees incurred as a result of this incident.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-organizations-covid-response-site-2/




Brockton Organizations COVID Response Site 

Pre-Registration and Appointment Required
STEP 1: Call COVID-19 Hotline 1-844-4TEST19/1-844-483-7819
Testing is now open to all in the Greater Brockton community

If you have a primary care provider with Signature Medical Group, press 1.
If you have a primary care provider with Brockton Neighborhood Health Center, press 2.
If you have a primary care provider elsewhere, or do not have a primary care provider, press 3

STEP 2: You will be pre-registered by staff from Signature Medical Group or Brockton Neighborhood Health Center and you will be given an appointment date and time for testing.
STEP 3: Return to the testing site at the appointment date and time given to you,
Testing will take place at:
Brockton High School – Parking Lot
470 Forest Ave.
Brockton, MA 02301
USE FOREST AVE ENTRANCE, NOT BELMONT STREET
At the testing site, please remember:

You should be wearing a mask covering your mouth and nose at all times
Do not exit the car, unless told by a staff member on site
Leave the car window rolled up, unless told otherwise by a staff member on site

STEP 4: Staff from Signature Medical Group or Brockton Neighborhood Health Center will call you when the results area available. Please keep in mind we are not conducting rapid testing at this time. You will get a call. This may take a few days.
 
  






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/detour-notification/




Detour Notification 

MassDOT will be doing Roadway Work at the Abington-Brockton line on North Quincy @ Boundary Ave and Chestnut St.  They will be doing Intersection Improvements and Related Work (installation of a roundabout).
There will be Drainage improvements, box widening, project signage, ADA/bike improvements, curbing, full depth roadway reconstruction, mill and pave.
Work will occur 7 AM to 3 PM for most activities.  There will be potential night milling and paving.
Traffic Management will include Police details, potential roadway flaggers, alternating traffic, lane restrictions, shoulder work, and potential detour if approved all to be utilized as required.
The estimated completion will be August 7, 2021.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-council-on-aging-board-of-directors-meeting-cancelled/




Brockton Council on Aging Board of Directors Meeting Cancelled 

Please note the monthly Brockton Council on Aging Board of Director’s meeting held at the Council on Aging located at 10 Father Kenney Way in Brockton, will be cancelled until further notice.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/detour-notices/




Detour Notices 

DETOUR NOTICE
Please be advised that there will be
RECONSTRUCTION of the following streets:

SUMNER STREET
FROM PLEASANT STREET
TO TOWN LINE
Work will begin on 
MONDAY, MAY 11, 2020

PROSPECT STREET
FROM MAIN STREET
TO WARREN AVENUE
Work will begin on 
TUESDAY, MAY 12, 2020

FOREST AVENUE
FROM ASH STREET
TO GORDON STREET
Work will begin on 
TUESDAY, MAY 12, 2020

QUINCY AVENUE
FROM QUINCY STREET
TO ADAMS STREET
Work will begin on 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 2020

IMPORTANT
Work hours will begin at 7:00am – 5:00pm
Detours for these streets will be set in the field by the Brockton Police Department and a Resident Engineer will be available on site.
This project is expected to take several weeks to be completed, weather permitting.
****Please seek alternate routes during this period to avoid delays and prevent vehicle damages as the roadway will be under construction for several weeks.****
We are sorry for the inconvenience.
City of Brockton
Department of Public Works






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-organizations-covid-response-site/




Brockton Organizations COVID Response Site 

Pre-Registration and Appointment Required
Step 1 – Call COVID-19 Hotline 1-844-483-7819 to see if you meet testing criteria
Step 2 – You will be pre-registered and given an appointment date and time
Step 3 – Go to Brockton High School on your appointment date and time
Step 4 – You will get a call when results are available







Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/car-seat-program/




Car Seat Program 

Nothing is more important than keeping children safe, so the Brockton Police Department has operated a car seat inspection and installation program for over 18 years, inspecting and installing hundreds of seats. Currently, 4 sworn Brockton Police Officers speaking English, Spanish, Cape Verdean Creole, and Haitian Creole are certified Child Passenger Safety Technicians who hold weekly appointments to inspect and/or install car seats while educating parents and caregivers about proper safety seat installation and usage.
Additionally, the officers conduct car seat inspections at events throughout the city, hold child passenger safety education classes for transporters and caregivers, and work with social service agencies to ensure infants and young children have a proper car seat.
Appointments are held at the Brockton Police Department at 7 Commercial Street on Wednesday evenings between 4pm and 7pm, and interested citizens should call 508-897-5208 to schedule a time to have their car seat checked or installed.
The point of contact for the Brockton Police Department’s Car Seat Program is
Lt. Brenda I. Perez, at 508-897-5209 or email at bperez@brocktonpolice.com.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/hydrant-flushing-cancelled-until-fall/




Hydrant Flushing Cancelled until Fall 

Hydrant flushing has been cancelled until this fall






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/page3





Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/community-tracing-collaborative/




Community Tracing Collaborative 

Community Tracing Collaborative
Want to be part of the COVID-19 solution?
Just answer the call.
We need your help.  If you’ve tested positive for COVID-19, the COVID Community Team will be reaching out via phone to you and your close contacts to slow the spread.  We’ll make sure that you are getting the medical attention you need and support through quarantine.  Your caller ID will show the call os coming from “MA COVID Team“.  Your name will not be released.
Massachusetts, let’s answer the call.







Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/permit-application-procedures/




Permit Application Procedures 

City of Brockton
PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES
[Pursuant to Chapter 53 of Acts of 2020]
Issued: April 9, 2020
On Friday, April 3, 2020, Governor Baker signed into law Chapter 53 of the Acts of 2020, An Act to Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities and State Authorities Resulting from COVID-19. Section 17 of the Act modifies state and local laws governing the submission and process of permit applications for the duration of the State of Emergency declared by Governor Baker on March 10, 2020.
The City of Brockton is implementing Chapter 53, Section 17 as follows. Portions of the Act are summarized below. Please see referenced sections for complete text.

17(a) Definitions

“Permit”: a permit, variance, special permit, license, amendment, extension, or other approval issued by a permit granting authority pursuant to a statute, ordinance, bylaw, rule or regulation, whether ministerial or discretionary.
”Permit granting authority”, a local, district, county or regional official or a local, district, county or regional multi-member body that is authorized to issue a permit.
PERMIT APPLICATIONS §17(b)(i) – For so long as the State of Emergency remains in effect, the Act governs the submission of permit applications. Permit applications to land use boards may be filed as set forth below:
“An application for a permit shall be deemed duly filed and accepted as of the date of the filing by the applicant if filed with and certified as received by the city clerk.”
Applications to Permit Granting Authorities may be filed either:

By first class mail: Application to the Brockton City Clerk, 45 School Street, Brockton, MA 02301, and copy of Application and all submission materials, including application fee, to the appropriate permit granting authority. [An email to the permit granting authority alerting it that an application has been mailed is ]
Electronically: Attachment of the requisite application form and supplemental materials by email to the City Clerk with “cc” to the appropriate permit granting authority and receipt by first class mail of a check for the applicable application fee. [Online payment not available at this time; but check back for ]

 



BOARD
ELECTRONIC FILING:


Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/nursing-home-family-resource-line/




Nursing Home Family Resource Line 

The Executive Office of Health and Human Services is pleased to announce the launch of the Nursing Home Family Resource Line – a dedicated phone line to connect family members of nursing home and rest home residents with the information and resources they need. This new phone line provides one central contact for families and community members who have questions about the nursing home or rest home care their loved one is receiving during the COVID-19 outbreak.
The Nursing Home Family Resource Line is staffed from 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM, seven days a week. Staff will field questions on a range of topics and coordinate across state agencies to help provide answers.
These are unprecedented times and, understandably, families and community members have questions. We remain committed to providing relevant and timely information, and the Nursing Home Family Resource Line is another important resource.
Massachusetts Nursing Home Family Resource Line: 617-660-5399
Open Every Day – 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/mayor-robert-f-sullivan-announces-grants-for-downtown-businesses-and-cultural-institutions/




Mayor Robert F. Sullivan announces grants for downtown businesses and cultural institutions 

Today, April 6, 2020, Mayor Robert F. Sullivan announced that the Brockton TDI Partnership, in conjunction with MassDevelopment, is making $42,000 in small grants available to downtown businesses and cultural institutions to assist them during the COVID-19 health and economic crisis. The grants, up to $7,000 each, are designed to be as flexible as possible with funds being used where the grantee needs it most, whether it is help with rent, utilities, payroll, loan payments or other pressing concerns.

Applications are available on the Brockton Redevelopment Authority’s web page (https://brocktonredevelopmentauthority.com/tdi-covid-19/) and are due no later than Friday, April 17, 2020.

The Brockton TDI Partnership includes the City of Brockton, Brockton Redevelopment Authority, Trinity Financial, W. B. Mason, Neighborworks, Metro South Chamber, Brockton Interfaith Council, Brockton Beer, Fuller Craft Museum, EMI, Brockton Neighborhood Health, and Harbor One Bank.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/update-to-mayor-sullivans-emergency-declaration/




Update to Mayor Sullivan’s Emergency Declaration 

Mayor Sullivan has posted an update to his original Emergency Declaration. All City buildings will remain closed until further notice as per the Governor’s order. 
Update to Emergency Declaration – 4.3.20



A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/yard-waste-collection/




Yard Waste Collection 

Due to current circumstances beyond our control, the City is requiring a temporary limit of 2 barrels and 8 bags of yard waste per household per week.
Due to limited staffing, yard waste collection may fall behind. Please leave curbside – DO NOT BRING BACK IN – and it will be collected as soon as possible.
The Recycle Depot at 300 Oak Hill Way accepts yard waste drop off Monday thru Saturday 8:30 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. No landscapers or contractors – Brockton Residents only.
Thank you for your patience.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/epa-encourages-americans-to-only-flush-toilet-paper/




EPA Encourages Americans to Only Flush Toilet Paper 

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is encouraging all Americans to only flush toilet paper, not disinfecting wipes or other non-flushable items that should be disposed of in the trash. Flushing only toilet paper helps ensure that the toilets, plumbing, sewer systems and septic systems will continue working properly to safely manage our nation’s wastewater. While EPA encourages disinfecting your environment to prevent the spread of COVID-19, never flush disinfecting wipes or other non-flushable items. These easy steps will keep surfaces disinfected and wastewater management systems working for all Americans.
Preventable toilet and sewer backups can pose a threat to human health and present an extra challenge to our water utilities and their workforce. Flushing anything other than toilet paper, including disinfecting wipes, can damage internal plumbing, local sewer systems and septic systems. Fixing these backups is costly and takes time and resources away from ensuring that wastewater management systems are otherwise working properly. EPA thanks wastewater utilities and their workforce for their courageous efforts at a time when resources may be stretched thin. Having fully operational wastewater services is critical to containing COVID-19 and protecting Americans from other public health risks. Our nation’s wastewater employees are everyday heroes who are on the frontline of protecting human health and the environment every single day.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/covid-19-online-recovery-resources/




COVID 19 Online Recovery Resources 

ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS:

AA Online meetings

NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS:

Virtual NA meetings online
NA meeting search

SMART RECOVERY:

SMART Recovery online community
Private, convenient, online recovery support







Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/emergency-order-regarding-personal-care-services/




Emergency Order Regarding Personal Care Services 

There is an Emergency Order regarding Personal Care Services after March 22, 2020.  The full document can be found here:
Emergency Order



A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/changes-to-open-meetings/




Changes to Open Meetings 

Pursuant to Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020 Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §18, and the Governor’s March 15, 2020 Order imposing strict limitations on the number of people that may gather in one place, this meeting of the City of Brockton’s [board/committee/commission] is being conducted via remote participation. No in-person attendance of members of the public will be permitted, but every effort will be made to ensure that the public can adequately access the proceedings as provided for in the Order. A reminder that persons who would like to listen to/view this meeting while in progress may do so by following the link on the website or calling the phone number.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/page4





Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/ocpc-postponing-the-rsa-for-the-main-street-at-east-nilsson-street-intersection/




OCPC postponing the RSA for the Main Street at East Nilsson Street intersection 

To all Brockton stakeholders,
In light of Governor Charlie Baker’s declaration of a State of Emergency in Massachusetts in response to the outbreak of Coronavirus, OCPC will be postponing the RSA for the Main Street at East Nilsson Street intersection, until further notice. (The RSA was scheduled for March 26, 2020).
We are postponing the RSA in conformance with the governor’s guidance, in order to prevent and mitigate the spread of COVID-19, which includes discontinuing or canceling gatherings and events.
I apologize for any inconvenience this might cause for some individuals.
Currently, due to the recent circumstances relating to the Covid-19,  Old Colony Planning Council will be working remotely with a skeleton staff; however, I will continue the completion of the Main Street Corridor Study.  The data collection, analysis, and signal warrants for this intersection, Main Street at East Nilsson Street/Nilsson Street, was completed prior to the emergency, so I will be making recommendations for signalization at this location as a result of the work already done, once our study report is completed..   
If anyone has any questions regarding this RSA, please feel free to contact me,
Ray Guarino
Raymond Guarino
Principal Transportation Planner
Old Colony Planning Council (OCPC)
Old Colony Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO)
70 School Street, Brockton, MA 02301
Phone: 508-583-1833 Ext: 212
Fax: 508-559-8768
rguarino@ocpcrpa.org
www.ocpcrpa.org






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/narcotics-anonymous-and-alcoholics-anonymous-info/




Narcotics Anonymous and Alcoholics Anonymous Info 

Many (but not all) Narcotics Anonymous meetings are temporarily closed due to the COVID-19 virus. Meetings that take place in hospitals or other public facilities are likely to be closed, but some smaller meetings may be open. To learn the availabilities of these Narcotics Anonymous meetings, please visit https://www.na.org/meetingsearch/.
Need an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting during this time?
Here’s the website for “AA Online Intergroups”, where people can get help via email, chat, audio and forum meetings. http://aa-intergroup.org/






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/2020-census-campaign/




2020 Census Campaign 

See the 2020 Census Video: Census Campaign
Census Videos in other languages: Census YouTube Channel






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/social-security-news-release/




Social Security News Release 

Effective March 17, 2020, Social Security Offices Will Only Offer Phone Service 
** Online Services Remain Available **
All local Social Security offices will be closed to the public for in-person service starting Tuesday, March 17, 2020.  This decision protects the population we serve—older Americans and people with underlying medical conditions—and our employees during the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.  However, we are still able to provide critical services. 
 Our secure and convenient online services remain available at www.socialsecurity.gov.  Local offices will also continue to provide critical services over the phone.  We are working closely with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), state and local governments, and other experts to monitor COVID-19 and will let you know as soon as we can resume in-person service.
 If you need help from Social Security:                                                       

First, please use our secure and convenient online services available at socialsecurity.gov/onlineservices. You can apply for retirement, disability, and Medicare benefits online, check the status of an application or appeal, request a replacement Social Security card (in most areas), print a benefit verification letter, and much more – from anywhere and from any of your devices. We also have a wealth of information to answer most of your Social Security questions online, without having to speak with a Social Security representative in person or by phone. Please visit our online Frequently Asked Questions at www.socialsecurity.gov/ask.

 

If you cannot conduct your Social Security business online, please check our online field office locator for specific information about how to directly contact your local office. Your local office still will be able to provide critical services to help you apply for benefits, answer your questions, and provide other services over the phone.

 

If you already have an in-office appointment scheduled, we will call you to handle your appointment over the phone instead. If you have a hearing scheduled, we will call you to discuss alternatives for continuing with your hearing, including offering a telephonic hearing.  Our call may come from a PRIVATE number and not from a U.S. Government phone.  Please remember that our employees will not threaten you or ask for any form of payment.

If you cannot complete your Social Security business online, please call our National 800 Number at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY 1-800-325-0778).  Our National 800 Number has many automated service options you can use without waiting to speak with a telephone representative.  A list of automated telephone services is available online at www.socialsecurity.gov/agency/contact/phone.html.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/keep-brockton-beautiful-day-postponed-curbside-yard-waste-collection-begins-march-30/




Keep Brockton Beautiful Day postponed, Curbside yard waste collection begins March 30 

Keep Brockton Beautiful Day, originally scheduled for April 18 has been postponed indefinitely due to unforeseen circumstances.
Curbside yard waste collection begins the week of March 30.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-public-library-closed/




Brockton Public Library Closed 

The Brockton Public Library is closed due to the coronavirus.  Fines are waived during the closure.  Items checked out can be kept at home or returned to the Main Library bookdrop.  Check the library website for resources and information (www.brocktonpubliclibrary.org).






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/mema-covid-19-command-center-situation-report/




MEMA COVID-19 Command Center Situation Report 

The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency has distributed a copy of the COVID-19 Command Center Situation Report (Sitrep).
March 26, 2020 – COVID-19 Response Command Center Sitrep 032620
March 22, 2020 – COVID-19 Response Command Center Sitrep 032220
March 18, 2020 – COVID-19 Response Command Center Sitrep #2 031820
March 17, 2020 – COVID-19 Response Command Center Sitrep #1 031720



A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/businesses-employers-unemployment-resources/




BUSINESSES & EMPLOYERS UNEMPLOYMENT RESOURCES 

The Executive Office of Labor and Workforce Development (EOLWD) and the Department of Unemployment Assistance (DUA), in coordination with the US Department of Labor (USDOL), are taking a series of actions to assist workers and employers.  The information below is translated in English, French, Spanish and Portuguese.  For more information go to:
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/covid-19-guidance-and-directives#BUSINESSES-&-EMPLOYERS-
ENGLISH UNEMPLOYMENT PDF
FRENCH UNEMPLOYMENT PDF 2
SPANISH UNEMPLOYMENT PDF
PORTUGUESE UNEMPLOYMENT PDF
 



A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-retirement-office-closed-to-the-public/




BROCKTON RETIREMENT OFFICE CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC 

In an effort to follow the recommendations from the CDC and WHO, the Brockton Retirement Office will be closed to the public until further notice. We are here to serve our membership, and as such, it is important that we all be socially responsible and take care to ensure that we do not expose each other to the Corona Virus.
At this time we continue to practice “business as usual” in our office, and will work remotely when possible. We are still taking phone calls and emails and it remains our goal to provide you with outstanding customer service during these difficult times.
Please call our main line at (508) 580-7847 if you need to reach us. We also encourage you to reach out to us via email.
Jeanne Martineau, Executive Director jmartineau@brocktonretirement.com
Tina Jefferson, Payroll Administrator tjefferson@brocktonretirement.com
Debbie Goucher, Retirement Analyst dgoucher@brocktonretirement.com
Please feel free to contact me directly if you have specific concerns. I thank you all for your patience and understanding. Stay healthy colleagues!






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/city-of-brockton-dpw-emergency-service-guidelines-for-covid-19/




City Of Brockton DPW Emergency service guidelines for COVID-19 

Ensuring the health and safety of our employees and customers is our number one priority. We do not anticipate any service disruption to our customers at this time.

We have implemented additional measures that will allow us to safely continue providing essential services to you.
In keeping with public health official guidelines, we are taking pre-cautionary measures to limit your exposure and that of our employees.

Before entering your home, we will ask a series of questions about recent travel, exposure to anyone who has traveled, or exposure to the virus for anyone in your home.
If you are quarantined or sick and you call us for a service order or to report a water leak, sewer backup or other emergency, we ask that you advise us about the conditions ahead of time. The City of Brockton will work together with you to determine best course of action regarding your service.
Our employees have been instructed to take precautionary measures to mitigate their and your exposure to limit the risk of infection. Some of those precautions include:

Frequent handwashing and use of sanitizer
Avoiding touching mouth, nose and eyes
Keeping a safe distance from anyone self-quarantined or sick
Staying home if they are sick










Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/page5





Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-mayor-robert-f-sullivan-declares-local-state-of-emergency/




Brockton Mayor Robert F. Sullivan Declares Local State of Emergency 

Mayor Robert F. Sullivan today announced a local state of emergency in the City of Brockton which will enable his office to take decisive action to control the spread of COVID-19. The declaration will also allow the city to request federal reimbursement for costs accrued during the emergency response.
“City departments and our local partners have been working collaboratively for weeks to limit COVID-19’s impact on our City and community. Declaring a state of emergency will ensure that we bring every possible resource to the table to protect the most vulnerable among us,” said Mayor Sullivan.
In addition to the declaration, the Mayor closed the Council on Aging and all branches of the Brockton Public Library until further notice. The DW Field Golf Course will also remain closed until further notice and all permits for use of the city’s facilities have been suspended.
While City Hall will remain open, non-essential meetings are cancelled through March 30 and services will be restricted only to those that are essential to serving the public. Residents are encouraged to use the city’s website, brockton.ma.us, to access services and those who visit City Hall will now be required to enter through the side entrance located on the right side of the building. Convenience fees will be waived for all online payments and transactions to encourage the use of online resources.
In response to Governor Charlie Baker’s restrictions on gatherings of 25 or more people, Mayor Sullivan reminded restaurants and bars that on-site consumption of food and alcohol is prohibited through April 6. He noted that the Baker-Polito Administration has created a small business emergency loan fund of $10 million for members of the business community that are impacted by closures. The process for applying for an emergency loan will be available on the state’s website.
In an announcement Sunday night, Governor Charlie Baker closed all schools in the state of Massachusetts through April 6. Brockton Public Schools Superintendent Michael Thomas reminded families that the district has opened four drive-up locations for students to pick up grab-and-go meals. Six more satellite locations will be announced on bpsma.org and via the district’s all call system Tuesday.
“Our goal is to continue to provide meals to every child who relies on our free breakfast and lunch program while the schools are closed for the next three weeks. We are adding locations with the hope that those who have transportation challenges will still have a location in walking distance to their home,” explained Superintendent Thomas.
The district’s transportation provider, First Student, will transport cafeteria workers to the additional satellite locations where they will hand out the meals. By Wednesday, the district expects to have all ten locations open from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. each week day until the schools reopen.
Also during Monday’s press conference, Mayor Sullivan introduced the city’s Interim Executive Health Officer, John McGarry. McGarry, a registered nurse who previously served as a City Councilor (Ward 3 and At-Large) and was the Executive Director of the Brockton Elections Commission for nearly 20 years, will oversee the Brockton Board of Health’s COVID-19 response.
“John McGarry understands what needs to be done to limit the strain on our local healthcare providers because he is a trained medical professional. He understands how to support the people of Brockton during this difficult time because they are his neighbors and longtime friends. During this critical time, I can think of no person better prepared to lead the Brockton Board of Health,” said Mayor Sullivan.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/wash-your-hands/




Wash Your Hands 

Follow these steps for proper handwashing to prevent the spread of germs. Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. The information below is translated in English, Spanish, French, and Portuguese.



Wash your Hands – English
Wash your Hands – Spanish
Wash your Hands – French
Wash your Hands – Portuguese






A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/mayor-sullivan-on-covid-19-governor-bakers-announcement/




Mayor Sullivan on COVID-19 Governor Baker’s Announcement 

Watch Mayor Sullivan’s Video Here!
This video has captions.  Click the cog on the video and select Caption On to see them.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-public-schools-closed/




Brockton Public Schools Closed 

Dear BPS Community,
After careful consideration and extensive discussions between district and city leaders, we have made the decision to close the Brockton Public Schools from Monday, March 16, through Friday, March 27. All planned events scheduled to take place during this two-week period are cancelled.
We did not make this decision lightly, and we apologize for this major disruption in the lives of the families we serve. In a large district like ours, the social distancing recommendations shared by medical professionals are not feasible. We felt closing all schools was necessary to ensure the health and safety of our more than 17,000 students and staff members. Our decision is also in line with our neighboring school districts.
Beginning early next week, the district will make free lunch options available to students at drive-up satellite locations. We will provide detailed information about that process on Sunday afternoon via a phone message and on our website. We will also have both electronic and print versions of coursework for students to continue learning at home. That information will be shared with you early next week as well.
I want to stress that we made the difficult decision to close our schools in order to support social distancing and to limit direct contact between individuals as concerns about COVID-19 continue to impact area communities. Please support this decision by keeping your child home and focused on learning activities during this time.
Many of you have asked about making up days at the end of the year. Please note that the final day of school will now be June 24, our 185th day of school.
I want to thank all of you for supporting the district as we all navigate this unprecedented public health crisis. Please expect frequent updates from us over the next two weeks.
Thank you,
Superintendent Thomas






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-public-library-system-will-be-closed/




Brockton Public Library System will be closed 

The Brockton Public Library System will be closed Monday, 3/16/20 in order to deep clean. 
East and West will be cleaned on Saturday 3/14/20. Main will be cleaned Sunday 3/15/20 and Monday 3/16/20.
The Historical room, Finberg Room, and the Periodical Room will be closed to the public until further notice effective immediately.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/excise-tax-bill/




Excise Tax Bill 

The Excise Tax bill is due on March 23,in an effort to keep everyone safe, we want to remind residents that most payments can be made online using the city website https://brockton.ma.us/online-services/pay-a-bill/
If you are able to make the payment online, please do so. Also, checks can be mailed using the envelope provided with your bill.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/steps-to-keep-your-institution-safe-by-preventing-the-spread-of-the-coronavirus/




Steps to keep your institution safe by preventing the spread of the Coronavirus 


Wash hands with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.
Avoid touching your mouth, eyes, and face.
Avoid overcrowded areas and ensure ventilation.
Keep restrooms supplied with soap and paper towels or hand dryers.







Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/coronavirus-update/




Coronavirus Update 

The City of Brockton is closely monitoring the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak in Massachusetts and taking proactive steps to support containment efforts and prepare for further spread of the disease. To that end, Brockton city officials are participating in daily briefings with state and federal officials and will share updates for Brockton residents regularly at www.cityofbrockton.com and via social media. To speak with a Community Information Specialist about the coronavirus, please call 211 or 1-866-698-6155
March 13, 2020 Update: Brockton Public Schools will be closed on Friday, March 13, 2020, through Friday, March 27.
The Mayor’s Office has set up a special Emergency Update page for the latest Coronavirus news. It can be found here: brockton.ma.us/covid19/






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/brockton-public-announcement/




Brockton Public Announcement – Updated 

The latest Coronvirus information can be found here: https://brockton.ma.us/covid19/
The latest video from the Mayor (as of 3/16/20) can be found here:
Mayor’s Video
*Brockton Public Announcement*
From Mayor Robert Sullivan
And Superintendent of Brockton Public Schools Michael Thomas:
All schools will be closed on Friday, March 13 and Monday, March 16 so the Facilities Department can conduct a deep cleaning to prevent the coronavirus (COVID-19) in the schools. All planned school weekend activities are cancelled as well.
The Council on Aging is also closed until further notice.
After careful consideration and extensive discussions between district and city leaders, we have made the decision to close the Brockton Public Schools from Monday, March 16, through Friday, March 27. All planned events scheduled to take place during this two-week period are cancelled.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/digital-imaging-for-revaluation-project-begins-monday-march-16-2020/




Digital Imaging for Revaluation Project Begins Monday March 16, 2020 

On Monday, March 16th, 2020, the City of Brockton will start the street-level digital imagery part of the 2021 Revaluation Project. The City has contracted Tyler Technologies and Cyclomedia to digitally photograph the exterior of every property in the city, validate addresses, and gather information on exterior features of existing homes.  See the full details on our Event Calendar.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/page6





Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/2020-census-kick-off-celebration/




2020 Census Kick-Off Celebration 

Join us to celebrate the kick-off of the 2020 Census on April 1 at the North  Middle School.  There will be free activities for kids.  Staff will be available to answer questions.  For more information see the Event






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/mayor-bill-carpenter-garage-open/




Mayor Bill Carpenter Garage Open 

The Mayor Bill Carpenter garage is now open for business. This is a state-of-the-art 415 space facility, intended for use by monthly contract parkers, daily parkers, and area residents.
The facility is gateless, and access is controlled by license plate recognition technology, similar to the boothless tolls you now find on highways. Monthly contract parkers can access the garage by having their license plate on file with the Parking Authority prior to using the facility. Monthly rate is $45.00. Daily parkers will pay for parking by entering their license plate number at any of the kiosks located on each floor when they are ready to leave the garage. The kiosks accept MasterCard, Visa, and Discover cards, or exact change in bills. Rates are $2.00 per hour up to a maximum of $10.00 per day. All rates are subject to change by vote of the Parking Authority Board of Directors.
For further information, or to obtain a monthly permit by registering your license plate with us, please contact our office at 60 School St. 2nd Floor, or call 508-580-7840.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/cdc-coronavirus-updates/




CDC Coronavirus Updates 

The CDC has sent out an update on the Coronavirus. The information can be found here: CDC Coronavirus Update






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/ocpc-brockton-main-street-corridor-study/




OCPC Brockton Main Street Corridor Study 

The Old Colony Planning Council has information about the study conducted for the Main Street Corridor. The information can be found at http://www.ocpcrpa.org/corridor_study_2020.html.
You can also fill out their online survey at https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/MainStreetBrockton2020.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/coronavirus-information/




Coronavirus Information 

The Office of the Mayor is making available the following documents about the Coronavirus.
Coronavirus Summary
CDC Recommendations for Coronavirus



A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/2020-census/




2020 Census 

Find out more about the 2020 Census at www.2020census.gov.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/sensus-customer-portal/




Sensus Customer Portal 

As of October 1, 2019 AquaHawk will no longer be available. It is being replaced by the Sensus Customer Portal.
Here is the link to sign in: https://my-broc.sensus-analytics.com/login.html#/signin
Here is a video showing how to set up an account: https://sensus-training.com/SA/admin/newAccount.mp4






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/new-brockton-restaurant-guide-available-to-residents/




New Brockton Restaurant Guide Available to Residents 

The Brockton restaurant guide features over 120 eateries that are open to residents and visitors of the City – a great resource for showcasing the variety of cuisines available.  
Brockton Restaurant Guide



A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/silver-lake-water-filtration-plant-pump-well-rehabilitation-dwsrf/




Silver Lake Water Filtration Plant Pump Well Rehabilitation (DWSRF) 

Construction of upgrades and improvements to the Silver Lake Water Filtration Plant, Pembroke, Massachusetts, were financed by the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF). The DWSRF program is administered by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MassDEP) with joint funding from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Massachusetts Clean Water Trust. This project includes rehabilitation of the finished water pump well and backwash pump well concrete roof slab, replacement of slide gates, and installation of new dividing wall. The improvements will allow for the continued protection of drinking water for Brockton and portions of Whitman, Hanson, East Bridgewater, and Halifax. The DWSRF programs operate around the country to provide states and communities the resources necessary to maintain and improve the infrastructure that protects our valuable water resources nationwide.






Scraping from https://brockton.ma.us/news/advanced-water-reclamation-facility-biological-nutrient-removal-bnr-upgrade-project-cwsrf/




Advanced Water Reclamation Facility Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR) Upgrade Project (CWSRF) 

Construction of upgrades and improvements to the Brockton Advanced Water Reclamation Facility (AWRF), 303 Oak Hill Way, Brockton, MA, were financed by the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF). The CWSRF program is administered by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MassDEP) with joint funding from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Massachusetts Clean Water Trust. This project includes modifying the AWRF’s aeration basins and making other improvements as necessary for the City to comply with its NPDES permit.  The improvements will allow the City to achieve an effluent total nitrogen (TN) of 450 lbs/day seasonally, equivalent to 3 mg/L on an 18 MGD average flow basis, thus providing water quality benefits for the City of Brockton, Salisbury Plain River, and the Taunton River Watershed. The CWSRF programs operate around the country to provide states and communities the resources necessary to maintain and improve the infrastructure that protects our valuable water resources nationwide.



