Scraping from https://www.quincyma.gov/covid19.htm

low graphics




a
Make Font Small Size
a 
Make Font Default Size
a
Make Font Large Size
























Search








Home
Email
Email Us
Email Us
Print
Part one of phase three for the re-opening plan in MA will begin on Monday, July 6, 2020. For a list of this first part of phase 3 and Governor Charlie Baker's update, please visit 
https://www.mass.gov/covid19-updates
. According to the Governor, "phase three contains some bigger players that will draw more people into indoor settings with respect to various activities like movie theaters and museums. Medical evidence continues to say that Covid has a much higher risk of spreading indoors and in enclosed spaces than it does in outdoor spaces. This phase will last significantly longer that the other phases so we can closely monitor the impact to our public health data." 
Re-opening guidelines for fall 2020 education 
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/reopening-higher-education
For more information on restaurant guidelines, click 
here
 for the MA Restaurant Safety Standards and 
here
 for the MA Restaurant COVID-19 Checklist
Mayor Koch announced that the City's 30 tot-lot playgrounds will be opened effective immediately in accordance with guidelines issued by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for Phase 2 of the Covid-19 re-opening plan. Recreation staff will clean the playgrounds three times per day, seven days per week. The playgrounds will have to be closed for 15-minute breaks during and immediately after each cleaning. Playground capacity will be limited to 10 children at a time to help adhere to social distancing guidelines. Adults are asked to wear masks while attending to children at the parks. If playgrounds are at capacity, a one-hour time limit will be enforced to ensure equitable use. Hand-washing stations have been placed at most park locations and park-goers are encouraged to thoroughly wash their hands before and after using the parks and playgrounds.   Basketball and tennis courts will remain open and monitored by Recreation staff to ensure residents adhere to the updated restrictions.
For more information on lodgings guidelines, click 
here
 for the MA Lodging Safety Standards and 
here
 for the MA Lodging COVID-19 Checklist
5/11/2020 The City Of Quincy, in collaboration with the Thomas Crane Public Library, QATV & Quincy400, have created the Quincy Covid Memories Project, inviting the community to share photos, stories, art, remembrances, video & audio file and poetry that represent what is most meaningful and relevant during this extraordinary time in our history. Visit 
quincyculturalmemory.com
 to upload your submissions and to find out more. 
5/1/2020 - Governor Charlie Baker announced today a requirement for all residents to wear a mask in public places when it is not possible to maintain proper social distancing. This applies to workers and customers of essential businesses like groceries and pharmacies.
The City of Quincy, in collaboration with Bay State Community Services is proud to offer a new recovery coach initiative to residents experiencing substance use disorder as well as their friends and family. Support will include one on one peer support, treatment referrals to the appropriate level of care, medication assisted treatment referrals, medical care referrals, linkage to housing support and other resources and connection to virtual 12 step meetings and other recovery support groups. Access will be available twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. To connect, please call 1-617-376-3766 or contact Laura Martin, City of Quincy’s Substance Use Prevention Coordinator, at 
lmartin@quincyma.gov
.  To view the entire release, please click 
here
. 
"Grab & Go" student meals - In addition to pick up locations at North Quincy High School, Quincy High, Snug Harbor and Lincoln-Hancock, students can now pick up “Grab and Go” meals at Clifford Marshall, Atherton Hough, Parker and Montclair schools. Meals will be available from 11 AM to noon. Additional details are available on QPS website.  To visit the site, please click 
here
. 
For small business questions, please contact the City of Quincy's Planning Department at (617) 376-1266 for assistance.


Mayor Thomas P. Koch announced the creation of The Quincy Relief Fund to coordinate charitable fund-raising efforts aimed at helping people and organizations hardest hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Donations can be made to 
quincyrelieffund.com
. Checks made out to The Quincy Foundation with "Quincy Relief Fund" in the memo line can be mailed to the Quincy Foundation, c/o Colonial Federal Savings Bank, 15 Beach Street, Quincy, MA 02170. For more information, please visit 
quincyrelieffund.com


A temporary emergency order has been issued that prohibits the use of reusable bags until further notice. Retailers will provide bags free of charge during this time.
Any gathering should maintain “social distancing” meaning people stay further six feet away from each other at all times.
Residents in potentially vulnerable populations, such as seniors and those with underlying medical conditions, are advised to stay home.
Many of the things you do to help prevent colds and the flu can help protect you against other respiratory viruses such as Coronavirus:




Avoid large gatherings.


Wash your hands often with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.


Cover your coughs and sneezes.


Stay home if you are sick. If you are ill call your healthcare provider for instructions before going to a clinic, office or emergency room.




Avoid large gatherings.
Wash your hands often with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.
Cover your coughs and sneezes.
Stay home if you are sick. If you are ill call your healthcare provider for instructions before going to a clinic, office or emergency room.
There are currently no vaccines available to protect against this novel coronavirus infection. 
Don't flush Disinfecting Wipes, Paper Towel or Flushable Wipes down your toilet.  They can clog sewer lines and cause plumbing issues in your home.
Ruth Jones

    Health Commissioner

    (617) 376-1272


rjones@quincyma.gov
Mayor’s Office of Constituent Services

    (617) 376-1500 
CDC COVID 19 Information Page
Mass.gov
Quincy Relief Fund
Surgeon General's Guide to Making Cloth Mask
CDC Guide to Wearing a Mask
Quincy Restaurants Open for Take-Out, Delivery and Outdoor Dining
Small Business Financial Resource Guide
Web Accessibility
Site Policies
Contact Us
