


Scraping from https://www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=covid





Scraping from https://www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=2998


As part of the City of Springfield’s phased reopening plan, all municipal buildings and facilities will be reopening to the public, by appointment only, along with other restrictions, starting Wednesday, May 27, 2020.During Phase III, City Hall and all municipal buildings will continue to be open by appointment only, along with other restrictions. The following businesses will be eligible to reopen in Step One of Phase III, subject to industry-specific rules concerning capacity and operations: Full guidance and list of businesses eligible to reopen in Step One of Phase III can be found at 
www.mass.gov/reopening
. Businesses and sectors set to begin opening in Phase III are subject to compliance with all mandatory safety standards.Revised Gatherings Order:
 Under the updated gatherings order, indoor gatherings are limited to eight people per 1,000 square feet, but should not exceed 25 people in a single enclosed, indoor space.Outdoor gatherings in enclosed spaces are limited to 25 percent of the facility’s maximum permitted occupancy, with a maximum of 100 people in a single enclosed outdoor space. This includes community events, civic events, sporting events, concerts, conventions and more. This order does not apply to outdoor, unenclosed gatherings if proper social distancing measures are possible.This revised order does not supersede previously issued sector guidance, and is effective beginning Monday, July 6. It will be effective Monday, July 13 in the City of Boston.Public Health Guidance:In Phase III, health care providers may continue to provide in-person procedures and services as allowed in Phase II, with the addition of certain group treatment programs and day programs. These programs include adult day health, day habilitation programs, and substance abuse services day treatment and outpatient services. Certain human services programs can reopen including community based day services for adults with intellectual and cognitive disabilities and psychosocial rehabilitation clubhouses.        Health care providers are subject to compliance with all mandatory safety standards, and must continue to utilize prioritization policies established in Phase II for care delivery and scheduling, as well as monitor patient volume for non-essential, elective procedures and services.Read the full guidance 
here
.In Phase III, visitation guidelines have been updated for 24/7 congregate care facilities and programs overseen by the Executive Office of Health and Human Services, including the Departments of Developmental Services, Youth Services, Children and Families, Public Health, Mental Health and the Mass Rehabilitation Commission. Offsite visits, including overnight visits, will be allowed, under specific guidelines. Other updated guidelines, including visitation for long term care facilities, will be released later today. Complete visitation guidance is available at 
www.mass.gov/hhs/reopening
.  MassHealth will also extend its current telehealth flexibility through at least the end of the year to ensure member access to critical health care services and encourage continued adherence to preventative public health precautions. Conduct City Business Remotely or Contact the Appropriate Department Directly 
to Schedule an Appointment  If the City Department you are looking for is not listed, or you are not sure what department you need, start with our 311 Call Center. *** Please note, under Phase 1 the 
City Clerk’s Office
 and 
Collectors Office
 will no longer be open extended hours on Thursdays. These respective offices will be closing at 4:00pm on Thursday.***DepartmentPhone NumberEmail Address OR Website(Please put “Appointment Request” in the Subject Line of your email)311 Call Center413-736-3111311@springfieldcityhall.comSubmit a Service Request to 311 Online https://citizen.springfieldma.intelligovsoftware.com/Assessor’s Office 413-886-5256 Animal Control - TJO413-781-1484info@tjoconnoradoptioncenter.comBuilding Dept./Code Enforcement413-787-6031413-736-3111 City Clerk413-750-3298clerks@springfieldcityhall.comCapital Asset Construction413-787-6445 Collector/Treasurer413-750-3299collectors@springfieldcityhall.comOffice of Community Development413-750-2114 City Comptroller413-736-3111 City Library413-263-6828E-Library Access:  
www.springfieldlibrary.org/library/elibrary/DPW (Dept. of Public Works): DPW Excavation & Occupancy Permits  Traffic Commission/Board of Public Works Site Plan Reviews DPW Contracts Other DPW Questions 413-736-3111 			    413-787-6584  413-784-4891 413-784-4884 413-750-2728  413-787-6474        dpwpermits@springfieldcityhall.com
pgarrity@springfieldcityhall.com hvelez@springfieldcityhall.com akrar@springfieldcityhall.com pmerrill@springfieldcityhall.comPlanning and Economic Development413-787-6020tmathews@springfieldcityhall.com
splummer@springfieldcityhall.com
amoore@springfieldcityhall.comElder Affairs413-787-6785 Elections Office413-787-6190elections@springfieldcityhall.comFire Department Permits and Inspections413-787-6410 Health and Human Services413-787-6741sdennis@springfieldcityhall.comCOVID-19 Hotline413-750-3250 Office of Housing413-787-6500 Human Resources 413-787-6018413-787-6199cjulius@springfieldcityhall.comsdestacio@springfieldcityhall.comLaw Department    413-787-6085 413-886-5206 413787-6140 413-787-6149 Mayor’s Office413-787-6100cjackson@springfieldcityhall.comMayor’s Office of Consumer Information413-787-6437moci@springfieldcityhall.comSpringfield Parking Authority413-273-8440springfieldparkingauthority.comPark Department413-787-6461 Police DepartmentFor record requests and other license information (Ice cream vendor etc.) and general questions, you can contact the clerks office by e-mail, phone, FAX, or mail  If you are not able to find your desired department or service, please call Records at 787-6363 or the Watch Commander at 787-6325.  413-787-6310
 			413-787-6333
 			413-787-6300
 			413-787-6359413-787-6370 Tel:413-787-6310 Fax:413-787-6519  			  			Community Liaison: 
sarce@springfieldpolice.net  Springfield Police DeptAttention Clerks’ office130 Pearl StreetSpringfield, MA 01105 Office of Procurement413-787-6284 Retirement413-787-6090 School Department413-787-7100EMAIL: sps@springfieldpublicschools.com Veteran’s Services413-787-6141    PHASE IIDuring Phase II, City Hall and all municipal buildings will continue to be open by appointment only, along with other restrictions. 
  As part of the Commonwealth’s and the City of Springfield’s Phase II reopening plan, restaurants and other establishments will now be able to seek a temporary extension of their license to provide outdoor table service.Applications for temporary modifications of Liquor Licenses do not need to be submitted to the State’s Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission (ABCC). Review and approval of a modified permit from the ABCC will be made at the local level and notification to the State will be made by the City of Springfield.Applications can be found on the City’s Licensing Department website at: 
www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=licensing-departmentApplications can be submitted via email to 
License@SpringfieldCityhall.comIf an applicant does not have access to email an appointment can be made at (413) 787-6140 to drop off the application to the Licensing Department located at 36 Court Street, Room 305, Springfield, MA.Hours of operation will be at the request of the business / property owner but at a maximum shall reflect the current operating hours of an applicant’s business. Based upon the location of the business and surrounding zoning, the City may reduce the hours of operation.  Businesses with existing approvals for outdoor dining / alcohol sales will need to complete the temporary permit application and abide by the approved hours of operation. No alcohol sales will be allowed between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. or to anyone under the age of twenty-one (21) years.Please see the Notice letter, License Commission Guidance for Application, Application for Temporary Extension of Licensed Premises onto Outdoor Space, the Commonwealth’s Restaurant Checklist and Workplace Safety Standards for additional information.
 Click to view 
NOTICE BY MAYOR DOMENIC J. SARNO TO ALL APPLICANTS FOR TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF LICENSED PREMISES ONTO OUTDOOR SPACE
 Click to view 
Application for Temporary Extension of Licensed Premises onto Outdoor Space
 Click to view 
LICENSE COMMISSION GUIDANCE FOR APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF LICENSED PREMISES ONTO OUTDOOR SPACEClick to view 
Restaurant Saftey StandardsClick to view 
Restaurant Checklist  PHASES I and II Additional Phase I and II Reopening Aspects Include:Some events and recreational activities may resume under the guidance provided by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and following CDC guidelines that provide the steps required to ensure the safety of park patrons, recreational participants and Springfield residents.  By following these guidelines and protocols, limited activities can be scheduled under the proposed phases outlined by the Commonwealth.  It is imperative for the health and safety of all concerned that the CDC guidelines are met prior to moving to subsequent phases.  Any outbreaks and changes in the community regarding increased cases of the Covid-19 will require the Springfield community to return to a prior phase, requiring the cancellation of a proposed event/program.  Parks Phase 1Phase 2: June 8 Thomas J. O'Connor Animal Control and Adoption Center Libraries Police Department  Senior Centers and Community Centers Schools Veterans Click 
HERE 
to view the city's 
Phase I Reopening Guidance and Information on Reopening Municipal GovernmentClick 
here 
for Contact Info by Department to schedule an appointment.   Click 
here
 to view FAQ's from certain city departments. COVID-19 Business Control Plan  Sector-Specific Guidance, Information, Protocols and Best Practices
  Places of Worship
 - 
Permitted to reopen on May 18, 2020Workplace Safety Standards for Places of Worship to Address COVID-19Places of Worship Protocol SummaryPlaces of Worship Checklist Outdoor Recreation
 - 
Permitted to reopen on May 18, 2020Parks, Open Space, and Outdoor Education ProgramsMountain BikingRecreational Boating and Various Other Marine and Inland Waterway Related ActivitiesReopening Standards for Recreational Boating BusinessesZoos, Wildlife Reserves, Botanical Gardens Construction
 -
 Permitted to reopen on May 18, 2020Workplace Safety Standards for Construction to Address COVID-19Construction Protocol SummaryConstruction Checklist Manufacturing
 - 
Permitted to reopen on May 18, 2020Workplace Safety Standards for Manufacturing to Address COVID-19Manufacturing Protocol SummaryManufacturing Checklist Office Spaces
 -
 Permitted to reopen on May 25, 2020Workplace Safety Standards for Office Spaces to Address COVID-19Office Spaces Protocol SummaryOffice Spaces Checklist Laboratories 
- 
Permitted to reopen on May 25, 2020Workplace Safety Standards for Laboratories to Address COVID-19Laboratories Protocol SummaryLaboratories Checklist Hair Salons and Barbershops
 - 
Permitted to reopen on May 25, 2020Workplace Safety Standards for Hair Salons and Barbershops to Address COVID-19Hair Salons and Barbershops Protocol SummaryHair Salons and Barbershops Checklist Car Washes
 - 
Permitted to reopen on May 25, 2020Workplace Safety Standards for Car Washes to Address COVID-19Car Washes Protocol SummaryCar Washes Checklist Pet Grooming
 - 
Permitted to reopen on May 25, 2020Workplace Safety Standards for Pet Grooming Services to Address COVID-19Pet Grooming Services Protocol SummaryPet Grooming Services Checklist  Other Resources  Movie theaters and outdoor performance venues;Museums, cultural and historical sites; Fitness centers and health clubs;Certain indoor recreational activities with low potential for contact;Professional sports teams, under the authority of league-wide rules, may hold games without spectatorsPermits and InspectionsPotholesTrash Pick-upRecycling Pick-upYard WasteBulk Pick-upTraffic Signal IssuesRoad IssuesMain Office (Admin/Claims/Contracts)Code EnforcementLicense CommissionLitigationClerk’s OfficeTrafficNon-emergency MattersCommunity LiaisonFirearm Appointments and Questions
 				 LTCFID@springfieldpolice.netClerks_office@springfieldpolice.netCity Hall and all municipal buildings will reopen to the public, by appointment only, along with other restrictions on Wednesday, May 27, 2020 	
No walk-in traffic will be allowed during Phase I or Phase IINo walk-in traffic will be allowed during Phase I or Phase IIIndividuals will need to contact 311 or the city department directly to schedule an appointment to conduct their city related business - if such business cannot be done remotely - Click 
here 
to view 
City Department Contact Info to Schedule an Appointment
Appointments must be made at least 24 hours in advance
For emergency issues, certain arrangements and accommodations might be possible but will be at the descretion of each department
Based on volume, some appointments might have to be scheduled at a later date.  We ask for everyone's continued patience and understandingAppointments must be made at least 24 hours in advanceFor emergency issues, certain arrangements and accommodations might be possible but will be at the descretion of each departmentBased on volume, some appointments might have to be scheduled at a later date.  We ask for everyone's continued patience and understandingAs part of the city's public health efforts, all visitors will have to provide their names and contact info for contact tracing purposesEach municipal building will have a designated entry point - Click 
here 
for a quick overview for 
Entering Municipal Buildings
Individuals must check in at these designated entry points to confirm that they have their appointment
Individuals will also be required to have their temperature checked before entering - anyone, employee or visitor, with a temperature at or above 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit will not be allowed entry and will be asked to leave
Individuals must wear face coverings when entering municipal buildings 		
Exceptions for those under the age of 2 years, or those who have a health condition that prevents wearing a mask, or where a mask interferes with their breathingIndividuals must check in at these designated entry points to confirm that they have their appointmentIndividuals will also be required to have their temperature checked before entering - anyone, employee or visitor, with a temperature at or above 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit will not be allowed entry and will be asked to leaveIndividuals must wear face coverings when entering municipal buildings 		
Exceptions for those under the age of 2 years, or those who have a health condition that prevents wearing a mask, or where a mask interferes with their breathingExceptions for those under the age of 2 years, or those who have a health condition that prevents wearing a mask, or where a mask interferes with their breathingUpon entry to all municipal buildings, individuals must follow the pedestrian traffic flow markersIndividuals must stand and wait at the designated "Safe Standing Zone" marker at the city office they are scheduled to visit 	
City employee will call the individual forward for them to conduct their city related business.  This is necessary to limit the number of people within an office and to encourage social distancingCity employee will call the individual forward for them to conduct their city related business.  This is necessary to limit the number of people within an office and to encourage social distancingElevator use, where appropriate, will be restricted to one (1) individual at a time, unless they are accompanied by a family or household memberCity parks will remain open for passive recreation 	
Tennis courts will reopen, with restrictions
Golf courses will remain open, with restrictions 		
Golf courses will soon offer online registration
Park and golf course bathrooms will reopen pending the stationing of attendants
Food concessionwill reopen, with restrictions
Toll booth at Forest Park will reopenTennis courts will reopen, with restrictionsGolf courses will remain open, with restrictions 		
Golf courses will soon offer online registration
Park and golf course bathrooms will reopen pending the stationing of attendants
Food concessionwill reopen, with restrictions
Toll booth at Forest Park will reopenGolf courses will soon offer online registrationPark and golf course bathrooms will reopen pending the stationing of attendantsFood concessionwill reopen, with restrictionsToll booth at Forest Park will reopenFarmers Market will reopen, with restrictionsZoo in Forest Park will reopen, with restrictions and pending the stationing of bathroom attendentsPlaygrounds will reopen in Phase II, splash pad reopening is TBD, pools will remain closedNorth Riverfront Park will reopen to offer kayaks, with restrictions - one person per kayakPicnics will be allowed, with restrictionsThe Commonwealth/CDC is advising youth camps to operate if group sizes can be contained to 10 or fewer participants, with proper safety equipment for staff, and screening staff and children upon arrival.   Realizing this is not possible to limit camp and enrichment on site to 10 individuals, the School Department will offer virtual summer enrichment activities. 	
The School Department is exploring opportunities to offer virtual summer enrichment programs to reach more children. The School Department is preparing curriculum to meet these goals.The School Department is exploring opportunities to offer virtual summer enrichment programs to reach more children. The School Department is preparing curriculum to meet these goals.Golf course restrooms are open; concessions remain open with safe social distance guidelines; carts permitted.Pools and Five Mile Pond will be closed as disinfecting and safe social distance at a 40 % capacity is not practical.Playgrounds and swings will be open. Signs will be posted reminding parents and guardians of safe social distance guidelines.At this time the Barney Carriage House will remain closed as we await guidance for reopening under serving guests/restaurant standards.Splash Pads have continued fresh water, there is no recirculated water. Splash pads are in the open air and drain to the city sewer system. Splash pads will be open and it will be a decision of the parent/guardian to allow their children to use this recreational resource. Signs will be posted to educate patrons of safety protocols and hand sanitizer stations may be placed at each site.Sports teams will be allowed to hold practices. Guidelines set forth by the commonwealth of mass strictly enforced. TBD when games will be allowed to commence. Cancelled if placed back in Phase 1.Tennis matches may commence with guidelines provided by the Commonwealth. No adoption servicesAll other services by appointment onlyWill reopen for curbside pickup only, by appointment starting June 8, 2020.Will begin making appointments for FID, LTC and other permitsWill remain closed during Phase IWill continue with wellness checks and outreach aspectsWill remain closed through the summerWill continue to provide remote learning and virtual summer programsChecks will be mailedWill reopen by appointment only


Scraping from https://www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=2989


The City of Springfield is currently monitoring the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) situation and will provide updates as new developments and relevant information becomes available. Click the headings below for links to more information.  City of Springfield Announces $250,000 in Fourth Round of Prime the PumpMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan today announced the release of $250,000 for a Fourth Round of the Prime the Pump Grant Program, to assist Springfield non-profit organizations, which have been economically impacted by the Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic.  The Prime the Pump Program was initially announced on March 18, 2020.  Since that time, the city has advanced over $1,250,000 to assist the city’s small businesses and restaurants in dealing with the economic impacts of the pandemic and the associated public health orders.  The Prime the Pump Program to date has touched small businesses in every neighborhood of the city and has provided assistance to many minority and women owned businesses. Today’s announcement brings Springfield’s grant assistance to local employers to $1,500,000. Reopening Massachusetts: Governor Baker Announces Transition to Third Phase of Four-Phase Reopening Approach The following businesses will be eligible to reopen in Step One of Phase III, subject to industry-specific rules concerning capacity and operations: Full guidance and list of businesses eligible to reopen in Step One of Phase III can be found at 
www.mass.gov/reopening
. Businesses and sectors set to begin opening in Phase III are subject to compliance with all mandatory safety standards.Revised Gatherings Order:
 Under the updated gatherings order, indoor gatherings are limited to eight people per 1,000 square feet, but should not exceed 25 people in a single enclosed, indoor space.Outdoor gatherings in enclosed spaces are limited to 25 percent of the facility’s maximum permitted occupancy, with a maximum of 100 people in a single enclosed outdoor space. This includes community events, civic events, sporting events, concerts, conventions and more. This order does not apply to outdoor, unenclosed gatherings if proper social distancing measures are possible.This revised order does not supersede previously issued sector guidance, and is effective beginning Monday, July 6. It will be effective Monday, July 13 in the City of Boston.Public Health Guidance:In Phase III, health care providers may continue to provide in-person procedures and services as allowed in Phase II, with the addition of certain group treatment programs and day programs. These programs include adult day health, day habilitation programs, and substance abuse services day treatment and outpatient services. Certain human services programs can reopen including community based day services for adults with intellectual and cognitive disabilities and psychosocial rehabilitation clubhouses.        Health care providers are subject to compliance with all mandatory safety standards, and must continue to utilize prioritization policies established in Phase II for care delivery and scheduling, as well as monitor patient volume for non-essential, elective procedures and services.Read the full guidance 
here
.In Phase III, visitation guidelines have been updated for 24/7 congregate care facilities and programs overseen by the Executive Office of Health and Human Services, including the Departments of Developmental Services, Youth Services, Children and Families, Public Health, Mental Health and the Mass Rehabilitation Commission. Offsite visits, including overnight visits, will be allowed, under specific guidelines. Other updated guidelines, including visitation for long term care facilities, will be released later today. Complete visitation guidance is available at 
www.mass.gov/hhs/reopening
.  MassHealth will also extend its current telehealth flexibility through at least the end of the year to ensure member access to critical health care services and encourage continued adherence to preventative public health precautions.  Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Releases Update for Fall School Reopning Guidance The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education released 
initial guidance for school reopening
 on June 25th with a focus on safely returning as many student as possible to in-person settings. Those guidelines were updated on July 1st.  Visit the Massachusetts Department of Education website: 
http://www.doe.mass.edu/covid19/.
  Massachusetts Updated Travel Guidelines to Support COVID-19 Response Effective Wednesday, July 1, all travelers arriving to Massachusetts, including residents returning home, are instructed to self-quarantine for 14-days. This guidance does not apply to travelers from Rhode Island, Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, New York or New Jersey. Additionally, workers designated by the federal government as essential critical infrastructure workers are also exempt from this directive.  Travelers who are displaying symptoms of COVID-19 are instructed to not travel to Massachusetts. All visitors and residents of Massachusetts are also reminded that the use of masks or face coverings in public places where individuals cannot socially distance from others remains 
required
.These new guidelines replace 
previously announced
 Massachusetts travel guidance. For national travel information, please visit 
www.travel.state.gov
.  MassHire Virtual Job FairsMassHire Springfield Career Center Offers a Week of Virtual Job Fairs: 
https://masshirespringfield.org/
. Massachusetts RMV Offers License Renewal Incentive The Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) is encouraging all eligible customers to renew their standard Massachusetts driver’s license or Massachusetts ID card online at Mass.Gov/RMV any time between now and August 12, 2020, in order to qualify for a free upgrade to a REAL ID credential in 2021. This one-time, time limited offer is available to most customers who have an expired or expiring license or ID card dated between March 2020 and August 2021, as renewals are allowed up to two years after expiration, or up to a year in advance of the expiration date printed on their license or ID.Qualifying customers who complete their renewal online prior to August 12
th
 and wish to upgrade to a REAL ID for free, will have to wait until at least February 2021 to visit an RMV Service Center. At this time, customers will not need a federally-compliant REAL ID for the purposes of boarding domestic flights prior to October 1, 2021 because the federal government delayed the compliance effective date by one-year. The fee for obtaining a standard or REAL ID license is $50, while the fee for obtaining a standard or REAL ID card is $25. The typical $25 upgrade / amendment fee will be waived under these qualifying circumstances. A limited digital campaign – 
“Stay Safe, Save Time, Go Online
”
 -- will also accompany this promotion and can be viewed at this link:https://youtu.be/B3NuHgTwa3Q Customers should take the following steps to determine their online renewal eligibility and to qualify for this offer:Extensions: All RMV customers are encouraged to visit 
www.Mass.Gov/RMV
 to renew their license or ID card, and complete one of over 40 other transactions available online, by mail, or by phone. Governor Baker Announced Transition to Step 2 of Phase 2 of Reopening The following will be eligible to reopen in Step Two of Phase II on Monday, June 22:Full list and safety protocols available at 
www.mass.gov/reopening
.In order to give Step 2 businesses time to prepare, the Administration had previously released sector-specific guidance in advance of Phase II for industries including restaurants, close-contact personal services and sectors not otherwise addressed:  Before these sectors can resume operations under the guidelines, businesses must meet all safety standards, create a COVID-19 control plan, and complete a self-certification.VIEW CONTROL PLAN TEMPLATESVIEW GOVERNOR BAKER’S PHASE II EXECUTIVE ORDER City Announced $500,000 in Third Round of Prime the Pump Grant ProgramApplications for the Third Round of Prime the Pump are due July 1, 2020 by 3:00 p.m. and must be submitted electronically to the attention of Anthony Moore at 
amoore@springfieldcityhall.comInterested parties can download the application at the City of Springfield’s Planning and Economic Development website at: 
www.springfield-ma.gov/plan
ningClick on the links below to view the Guidelines and to download the application.PTP ROUND 3 GuidelinesPTP ROUND 3 Application Governor Baker Announces "Pop Up" Testing Initiative The Commonwealth is urging anyone who has attended a large gathering in the past two weeks to get tested for COVID-19. This testing may be provided at no cost to you on June 17th and 18th.More info: 
www.mass.gov/info-details/get-tested-for-covid-19-june-17th-and-18th
.
 Springfield Testing Locations140 High St.           380 Plainfield St.      298 Carew St. Call 413-795-8378 MassSupport Network - Support Services For All Ages MassSupport Network provides community outreach and support services to residents of all ages in response to the unprecedented public health crisis, COVID-19.This Crisis Counseling Program (CCP) is funded by the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) and managed in partnership between the MA Department of Mental Health and Riverside Trauma Center, a program of Riverside Community Care.Our anonymous, confidential, and free program is for individuals (including youth), families, schools, organizations, businesses and communities. We provide emotional support, coping strategies, resources, and up-to-date, factual information; also psycho-educational presentations, consultations and group supports.     Contact 888-215-4920 or 
MassSupport@riversidecc.org     
Some of our Western Mass team’s outreach clinicians:     Anna-Stina Wardlaw, M.Ed. awardlaw@riversidecc.org, 781-805-5573     Monica Bellucci, LMHC mbellucci@riversidecc.org, 781-805-5456     Sean McHugh, RN smchugh@riversidecc.org, 781-805-5353     Team Leader Sarah Gaer, MA sgaer@riversidecc.org, 781-805-5422 Sector-Specific Protocols and Best PracticesGovernor Baker has updated the sector-specific mandatory safety standards and recommended best practices to include restaurants and retail businesses as part of the Commonwealth's Phase II reopening plans.  Mayor Sarno Moves to Facilitate and Energize Restaurants' / Businesses' Bottom Lines and Our Economy Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and the City’s Licensing Department announced today that pursuant to Governor Baker’s Executive Order, applicable guidance from the Commonwealth and input from various municipal departments, the City of Springfield has issued guidance and applications for temporary extension of licensed premises to outdoor space.As part of the Commonwealth’s and the City of Springfield’s Phase II reopening plan.  Restaurants and other establishments will now be able to seek a temporary extension of their license to provide outdoor table service.  Applications for temporary modifications of Liquor Licenses do not need to be submitted to the State’s Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission (ABCC). Review and approval of a modified permit from the ABCC will be made at the local level and notification to the State will be made by the City of Springfield.Applications can be found on the City’s Licensing Department website at: 
www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=licensing-departmentApplications can be submitted via email to 
License@SpringfieldCityhall.comIf an applicant does not have access to email an appointment can be made at (413) 787-6140 to drop off the application to the Licensing Department located at 36 Court Street, Room 305, Springfield, MA.Click to view 
NOTICE BY MAYOR DOMENIC J. SARNO TO ALL APPLICANTS FOR TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF LICENSED PREMISES ONTO OUTDOOR SPACE
 Click to view 
Application for Temporary Extension of Licensed Premises onto Outdoor Space
 Click to view 
LICENSE COMMISSION GUIDANCE FOR APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF LICENSED PREMISES ONTO OUTDOOR SPACEClick to view 
Restaurant Saftey StandardsClick to view 
Restaurant Checklist 
  Mayor Sarno joined Congressman Neal and PVTA Administrator Sheehan for Announcement of $36 million in CARES Act Funding to PVTAMayor Domenic J. Sarno, today, joined with Congressman Richard E. Neal, and Pioneer Valley Transit Authority (PVTA) Administrator Sandra Sheehan for the announcement of $36,615,416 in Federal Transit Authority funding as a result of the CARES Act.This funding will enable the PVTA to provide transit service during the COVID-19 public health emergency while also allowing the PVTA to respond to new transit operations needs post COVID-19. The grant is 100% federal funds with no local match required.   RMV Implements Further Credential ExtensionsThe Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) has implemented further extensions to the renewal timelines for expiring motor vehicle inspection stickers, passenger plate registrations, professional credentials, and driver's licenses and learner's permits, including Commercial Driver’s Licenses and Commercial Permits (CDLs / CLPs).While the RMV previously announced extensions for most credentials, passenger plate registrations, and inspection stickers expired or expiring in 
March, April, and May
, an additional extension has been applied to those credentials, and an extension has been added to some credentials expiring in 
June, July, and August
. Conduct City Business Remotely or Contact the Appropriate Department Directly to Schedule an Appointment As part of the City of Springfield’s phased reopening plan, all municipal buildings and facilities will be reopening to the public, by appointment only, along with other restrictions, starting Wednesday, May 27, 2020.  All municipal buildings will remain closed to walk-in traffic. Individuals will need to schedule an appointment with the appropriate city department they are looking to do their city related business with, as there will be a limit to the number of individuals inside city buildings and city offices.Residents can schedule an appointment with the city department they need to conduct business with by calling either our 311 Call Center or by contacting that city department directly.  Appointments must be made at least 24 hours in advance.
 Click 
here 
for Contact Info by Department.  Bay Path University of Offer Free Three-Credit Online Undergraduate Course to Women Working in Certain FieldsBay Path University, in hopes of helping those women who have been impacted by the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic, is offering a free three-credit online undergraduate college course to women working in the foodservices, hospitality, retail and travel industries.The course, Fundamentals of Digital Literacy, will help women expand their digital technology skill set and be better prepared for the workforce of the future.  The course is offered through the American Women's College, Bay Path University's fully online division designed to fit busy women's lives.The Digital Literacy course is a six-week, three-credit course offered in June and August of 2020 based on registration order. Students will examine best practices for utilizing social media and digital communication tools in the workplace. In addition, they will learn practical skills for a digital world and gain an increasing awareness of the risks of digital communication essential in all fields.For more information and to register for this free course starting as early as June, visit 
www.baypath.edu/baypathworks MassHire's Online Resources for Job Seekers This Week's Featured Webinar from MassHireRegister for "Don’t Let An ATS Trash Your Resume!"
 May 21 @ 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM: 
https://masshirespringfield.org/…/dont-let-an-ats-trash-yo…/
.MassHire Online Work Shops and Events Calendar:
https://masshirespringfield.org/online-classes/
. Governor Baker Announces Four-Phased Plan for Reopening The Baker-Polito Administration announced today the comprehensive plan to safely reopen the Massachusetts economy, get people back to work, and to ease social restrictions while minimizing the health impacts of COVID-19 (Coronavirus).Governor Baker announced the states Four-Phased plan of reopening the Commonwealth.  The phases will be "Start", "Cautious", "Vigliant", and "the New Normal", respectively.  Residents and Businesses are encouraged to visit the states "
Reopening Massachusetts
" website which provides additional information and guidance about the phased reopening and which industries and sectors are allowed to open and when at 
www.mass.gov/reopeningClick the link below to view the detailed guidance for specific industries and sectors on the opening plan, as issued by the Governor.Reopening Massachusetts: Guidance for industries on the reopening plan - as of May 18, 2020Click on the line below to view the detailed report on the reopening of Massachusetts, as issued by the Governor.Reopening Massachusetts Report Islamic Society of Western Massachusetts (ISWM) COVID-19 Care Package Program The ISWM has been delivering care packages with essential goods to residents of Springfield, West Springfield, Agawam, Chicopee, and Westfield. ISWM's packages include items such as dry foods, toilet paper, paper towels, and hand sanitizer. The phone number to have a care package delivered is 413-351-7721.  Governor Baker Announces Four-Phase Approach to Reopening Massachusetts & Publishes Workplace Safety Standards On Monday, May 11, 2020, Governor Baker announced a four-phased approach to reopening the Massachusetts economy amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, and published Mandatory Workplace Safety Standards that will apply across all sectors and industries once reopening begins.
 ​​​​​The Massachusetts economy will be reopened using a four-phase approach, based on public health guidance. Businesses and activities with a lower risk of COVID-19 transmission will open in earlier phases. Public health metrics will determine when the first phase of reopening begins, as well as when it is safe to move into later phases. If public health metrics worsen, the state may need to return to an earlier phase.The Department of Public Health (DPH) and the COVID-19 Command Center developed new Mandatory Workplace Safety Standards in consultation with the Reopening Advisory Board. These new standards will apply universally to all workplaces that are open in Phase 1, and are designed to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission to employees and customers during the first phase of reopening, and are applicable to all sectors and industries. 
Read more on Work Place Safety Standards at mass.gov. The Reopening Advisory Board is scheduled to provide its full report to Governor Baker on Monday, May 18
th
.  Food Transportation - The Food Bank of Western MassThe Food Bank of Western Mass has been authorized to give out LYFT codes " for people in Holyoke, Chicopee, or Springfield needing transportation to get food, the codes will give you a round trip to a grocery store, farm- stand or food pantry up to $10 each way. Codes can be obtained through May 16, 2020 by calling The Food Bank at 413-387-3849. Governor Baker Updates Essential Services GuidanceGovernor Baker has updated the Essential Services Guidance to allow golf courses to reopen on Thursday, May 7, 2020, with strict guidelines and restrictions such as prohibiting golf carts, bunker rakes and caddies.The specific guidelines for golf courses are: City of Springfield Board of Health Regulations on Face Coverings Effective May 6, 2020, the Governor of Massachusetts has ordered individuals to wear face coverings in public settings when you cannot physically separate by 6 feet.The Commissioner of the City of Springfield Department of Health and Human Services has issued a regulation regarding the use of mandatory face coverings in the City of Springfield, which can be found 
here
.  413cares.org COVID-19 Resource Guide
 413Cares is an innovative community portal that provides online access for residents of Western Massachusetts to available resources from housing, to healthcare, early education and more.They have developed a COVID-19 Resource Guide.  Governor Baker Updates Essential Services GuidanceGovernor Baker updated the Essential Services Guidence easing restrictions on certain retail establishments for "remote fulfillment" and "no-contact" deliveries for many non-essential businesses including florist, bookstores, jewelers, etc.   The new guidelines require these stores to remain closed to the public and limit operating hours to allow for sufficient off-hour cleaning. Employees must wear face coverings and stay at least six feet apart from one another, and all deliveries must be "no-contact" deliveries to consumers.The guidelines also limit the number of employees that can work at a given time, starting with three in a business smaller than 10,000 square feet and growing to seven in a facility with more than 30,000 square feet.Employers must also require workers to self-administer temperature checks before their shifts, and not report to work if they have a fever over 100 degrees. Governor Baker Issues Order Requiring Face Coverings to be worn in PublicGovernor Charlie Baker issued an order requiring everyone in the Commonwealth to wear face coverings in public - including in businesses, outdoors, or on public transportation.  The order will go into effect on Wednesday.     Springfield City Hall and All Municipal Buildings to Remain Closed to Public Until May 18, 2020 - Mayor Sarno to Review Plans for Eventual Reopening - Following Governor Charlie Baker’s extension of the Commonwealths stay-at-home advisory and closing of all non-essential businesses order, City Hall and all municipal buildings will remain closed to the public until May 18, 2020.  The original date in which the state and local municipalities and non-essential businesses would have been able to reopen was May 4, 2020.    Mayor Domenic J. Sarno also announced that he has directed his cabinet heads to begin reviewing plans and what measures that are going to be needed for the eventual reopening of City Hall and other municipal buildings.  Mayor Sarno has also directed his cabinet heads to begin reviewing the city’s plans for when the Governor’s non-essential business closing order expires.    Governor Charlie Baker Announced Massachusetts' "Stay at Home Advisory" and "Closure of Non-essential Businesses" Extended Until May 18th
 Governor Baker announced that he is extending the state's emergency order closing non-essential businesses as well as the state's stay-at-home advisory until May 18th.  Governor Baker also announced the creation of a reopening advisory board.City of Springfield Awards 76 New Grants to City Small Businesses as Part of the Second Round of “Prime the Pump”
 Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan announced today the awarding of 76 grants totaling $500,000 in the second round of the Prime the Pump program, assisting businesses in response to the economic crisis spurred from emergency closures due to Covid-19.The City saw overwhelming interest in the grant program, with over $1.5 million in grant requests from 114 applications across the city, all submitted in just one week.The Prime the Pump Program was initially announced on March 18, 2020.  With these awards, the city has now awarded 106 emergency grants to businesses in two rounds of Prime the Pump. The first round of the program awarded 30 grants to restaurants while the second round was open to businesses of all types. Between the two programs, the city has now awarded over $725,000 in grants to Springfield businesses. 
 The tentative awards subject to contract execution are listed 
here
.  Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Issue New Public Health Advisory to Essential Retail EstablishmentsOn the heels of the major spike in the daily number of positive COVID-19 cases, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and Health and Human Services (HHS) Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris today issued a new Public Health Advisory to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) and to continue to stress the importance of following social distancing  guidelines and public health and safety measures.The City of Springfield is asking those stores that provide essential services (such as grocery stores, pharmacies, large box stores, convenience and retail stores, etc.) to partner with the city and require their patrons to wear face coverings.  Springfield appreciates Big Y for already taking this proactive approach and the city strongly encourages and recommends that other essential retail establishments partners with the city for the good of all.  The City’s Health and Human Services (HHS) Department continues to review and monitor the COVID-19 situation.  HHS staff continue to be proactive in the community by visiting sites across the city to assure that the public health emergency orders and recommendations issued by Governor Baker, the CDC and Mayor Sarno are being followed and adhered to.  Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Report Major Spike of 104 New Cases TodayMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Health and Human Services (HHS) Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris report a major spike of 104 new COVID-19 (Coronavirus) cases today, bringing the city’s total to nearly 1,000 cases (967).Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris state that the city will continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation closely so that the city does not reopen and ease the prudent measures to early, which could potentially expose residents to a second wave of the virus.  Massachusetts Schools will Remain Closed this Academic Year
 Governor Charlie Baker and the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education announced on April 21st that Massachusetts students will remain home for the rest of the school year to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Remote learning will continue.  Governor Baker Signs Housing Bill Granting Moratorium on Evictions and ForeclosuresGovernor Baker signed a housing security bill (H4647) which establishes a moratorium on evictions and foreclosures until after the coronavirus pandemic.  The moratorium will last for 120 days, or until 45 days after Governor Baker lifts the COVID-19 state of emergency. The bill does not absolve tenants or homeowners from paying their rents or mortgages, but does protect them from paying late penalties as long as they demonstrate that their inability to pay during the crisis is due to a hardship caused by the pandemic. Governor Baker Announced Implementation of CARES Act Unemployment Benefits for Self-Employed and Other WorkersGovernor Baker announced that residents who were not eligible for regular unemployment benefits can now apply online for the new Pandemic Unemployment Assistance (PUA) Program.  The new federal PUA program provides up to 39 weeks of unemployment benefits who are unable to work because of a COVID-19-related reason but are not eligible for regular or extended unemployment benefits. This includes self-employed workers, independent contractors, gig economy workers, and those with limited work history. Applicants can learn more and apply at 
www.mass.gov/pua
.Free Meals for All Kids - Not Just SPS Students Meal service provided by Springfield Public Schools’ food service provider, Sodexo, is available to not only Springfield Public Schools students but to students from all schools in Springfield and from surrounding communities. “We’ve had a great number of inquiries from parents of students in surrounding cities and towns asking if they can take advantage of our free meal program during this closure and I want to be very clear that answer is a resounding yes,” said Superintendent of Springfield Public Schools Daniel Warwick. “Families from surrounding communities and Springfield families whose children do not attend Springfield Public Schools are more than welcome.” Free breakfast and lunch are available each weekday for all students, regardless of their city or town of residence or of the school they attend. The meals are grab-and-go and are available between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Monday – Friday at 17 locations throughout the City. Identification is not required when picking up a meal. Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles Further Extends DeadlinesThe Massachusetts RMV has implemented further extensions for expiring motor vehicle inspection stickers, passenger plate registrations, professional credentials, and licenses and permits, including Commercial Driver’s Licenses and Permits (CDLs / CLPs).
 While 60-day extensions had already been implemented for most credentials, passenger plate registrations, and inspection stickers expired or expiring in March and April, this new action will apply the same 60-day extension to those expiring in May. Additionally, credentials expiring in March 2020 that previously were extended by 60 days will have an additional 60-day extension applied. MassMutual Offering $3 Billion in Free Life Insurance to Healthcare Workers on COVID-19 FrontlineEarlier today, MassMutual announced the launch of their HealthBridge Program, which will provide free term life insurance to the brave and resilient frontline healthcare workers across Massachusetts and Connecticut risking their lives during the COVID-19 pandemic.This 
program
 
 will offer our brave and dedicated healthcare providers a free 3-year term life insurance policy for employees of licensed hospitals, urgent care centers, or emergency medical services providers.Mayor Sarno states, “Once again MassMutual is a well-respected national industry leader that never forgets its roots of providing during challenging times.  Thank you Roger Crandall and Team for once again stepping up, especially for all those frontline healthcare providers, who keep us safe and sound.”Interested individuals can find more information on the MassMutual HealthBridge webpage at 
www.massmutual.com/cm/healthbridge
. Mayor Sarno Orders Hiring and Spending FreezeMayor Domenic J. Sarno announced that after consulting with CAFO TJ Plante, he has ordered the City of Springfield to implement a hiring and spending freeze due to the ongoing economic impact from the COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic.  This decision was based on a recent economic roundtable discussion with state officials and economists over concerns of the ongoing coronavirus situation and its impact upon projected federal, state and municipal revenue shortfalls. Springfield Fire Department Holding Food DriveSFD announced they will hold a Food Drive to help residents in need.  Non-perishable food items can be donated and dropped off at city fire stations.  Residents are encouraged to call ahead or ring the door bell and to leave items at the door for social distancing aspects.      Eversource Critical Customer/Life Support Customer List To apply to be placed on the Eversource Energy's Life Support Customer List, customers mist send a letter from a physician, on the physician's letterhead  certifying (1) that the equiptment is being used for life suport purposes; (2) the type of equiptment being used; (3) patient's names, address, contact number, alternative contact number. The letter should be mailed to              Eversource             247 Station Dr. SW200             Westwood, MA 02090 Springfield Public Schools Online Registration for 2020-21 School Year Now OpenThe online registration for new students entering Springfield Public Schools for the 2020-2021 school year is now open. The process may be completed with a computer or cell phone by visiting 
www.springfieldpublicschools.com
 to get started. Simply click on the student enrollment quick link on the homepage. This online registration process allows families to enter student data and receive the student assignment via email rather than having to register in person at the Parent and Community Engagement Center (PACE) located at 91 School Street, which is the usual protocol for new student registrations.To register online, parents/guardians must first add the student’s information and upload the required documents (birth certificate, immunization records, proof of address, etc.) and then create an account using an email address.  PACE will process the documents and will make the school assignment based on appropriate information. The registration will be fully processed only if the parent uploads all the required student information.  If the student information is not uploaded online, the parent/guardian will be required to bring a hard copy of the documents to PACE. The process is available for families registering a new student in the district or a student who was formerly in the district, and now returning.  Families with questions regarding the online pre-registration process, should call PACE at (413) 787-6959 or email 
register@springfieldpublicschools.com
. Mayor Sarno Continues to Closey Monitor COVID-19 Situation Mayor Sarno and his administration continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation closely so that we do not reopen and ease our prudent measures too early, which could potentially expose our residents to second wave of the virus. As other countries have experienced, lifting restrictions prematurely has led to a resurgence of the virus and a second-wave outbreak of infections. Mayor Sarno is senstive to this possibiity as he monitors and assesses the situtation.   City of Springfield Activates COVID-19 HotlineThe city's Department of Health and Human Services activated its 24/7 hotline Monday April 13, 2020. Residents can call 413-750-3250 for questions related to COVID-19. The Department of Health and Human Services continues to track positive COVID-19 cases across the city.  Governor Baker Signs An Act to Further Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities, School Districts and State Authorities Resulting from COVID-19Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System (MCAS) testing requirements for the school year are suspended, the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education will modify or waive graduation requirements for students set to complete high school this summer, and due dates for district improvement plans will be pushed back under a bill Gov. Charlie Baker signed into law Friday. Governor Baker Advises Massachusetts Residents to Wear Face Coverings Governor Charlie Baker announced today that the Massachusetts Department of Public Health will issue an advisory recommending that people wear face masks or other face coverings in public. The advisory is consistent with recommendations issued by the CDC. 
 The City of Springfield's advisory regarding face covering can be found 
here
.  City of Springfield Releases Round Two of Prime the Pump Business Grant ProgramMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Tim Sheehan, Chief Development Officer, today announced the release of Round Two of the “Prime the Pump” grant program, aimed at providing immediate financial relief for small businesses in Springfield. The goal of the program is to help preserve jobs and assist businesses through this difficult time and as the federal assistance through the Small Business Administration and other entities is being rolled out.  Grants in the Prime the Pump program will be awarded of up to $15,000 to eligible businesses. The Prime the Pump program has already awarded $222,000 in its first round, assisting 30 restaurants in preserving a minimum of 30 jobs throughout the city. Mayor Sarno authorized an additional $500,000 of CDBG carryover funding to allow for a second round to address more business needs in the city. Applications will only be accepted by email. Interested businesses seeking an application should email Anthony Moore in the Economic Development office at 
Amoore@springfieldcityhall.com
 or directly download an application from the 
City of Springfield’s COVID-19 Business Resources site on the Planning & Economic Development page 
of the city website. MassHire to Hold Springfield Strong Online Job ExpoMassHire is holding a no cost online staff recruitment expo on April 28th, 29th & 30th. This event will be promoted through MassHire;s medoa partners 94.7WMAS, WEEI 105.5 and Nash Icon 98.1. Employers can advertise their openings on the MassHire dedicated web page with hyperlinks to job postings, company logo, company description and optional video embed.Contact: 
 JoAnn Miller, Director Business Services 
 MassHire Springfield Career Center 
 413-858-2851 
jmiller@masshirespringfield.org
  Governor Baker's Updated COVID-19 Essential Services FAQsThis list of FAQs provided by the Governor's Office addresses many of the submissions received by EOHED relating to  “
COVID-19 Essential Services
” guidance associated with Governor Baker’s March 23, 2020 Emergency Order (which was updated and extended on March 31, 2020). Massachusetts DPH Issued an Emergency Order Regarding Grocery Store Operations and Occupancy LimitsOn March 25, 2020, the Commissioner of Public Health, issued an order relevant to grocery stores to provide continuation of essential services while additionally reducing exposure of shoppers and employees to COVID-19 (hereinafter, the Order). This guidance is issued pursuant to that Order to further clarify and enable essential services to be provided.  1) Store Specific Maximum Permissible Occupancy Levels a. Each Grocery store shall limit occupancy to 40 percent of its maximum permitted occupancy level as documented in its occupancy permit on record with the municipal building department or other municipal record holder in order to provide for in-store social distancing while preserving sufficient access for the public to supplies of food and necessities. • Stores with a maximum occupancy of 25 persons or less are exempt from this requirement.  Local boards of health should consult with these stores to ensure appropriate protections are in place. b. Grocery store staff shall monitor the number of customers entering and exiting the store in order to demonstrate compliance with the maximum permissible occupancy level. c. The occupant count shall include customers and employees. d. No Local Board of Health shall prescribe or enforce a different limitation on Grocery store occupancy levels.   e. Grocery stores may calculate and employ an average number for staff per shift in counting employees present in the retail selling space to account for incidental movement of employees in and out of retail selling space. 
  
 2) If lines form outside the grocery store, staff should monitor the line to ensure customers are maintaining appropriate distance from each other. 
  
 3) If lines form outside the grocery store or other physical security concerns arise, local law enforcement should be notified and consulted. 4) Local boards of health are advised to minimize the application of specialized rules that dictate which products grocery stores may or may not be offered for sale to the public and how those products may be displayed.  Where local boards of health have particular concerns about individual products, the boards should consult with store operators to discuss the value of special safety protocols to reduce risk. 5) As grocery stores are a critical provider during this time local boards of health should work with these businesses to ensure that food and essential products are available to the public without disruption.  Every effort should be made to ensure continued operation of grocery stores.  If health concerns develop with respect to the operation of an individual grocery store, local boards of health should make all efforts to address the concerns with the grocery store instead of seeking punitive measures.  6) If a grocery store offers online delivery or curbside pickup capabilities, customers should be encouraged to use those methods before coming into the store. 7) Grocery stores should communicate with customers through in store signage and public service announcements. Where practical, retailers should designate one-way aisles in stores to maximize spacing between customers and should identify the one-way aisles with signage and floor markings. 8) The entirety of the Commissioner’s Order of March 25, 2020, remains in place.  However, grocery stores are reminded that they must continue to provide alternative hours, at least one hour every day in the early morning, for adults 60 years and older in order to limit their potential exposure.  These hours must be conspicuously posted and should be enforced by grocery stores.  City of Springfield to Adjust Deadline for Tax Relief ApplicationsMayor Domenic J. Sarno has announced that following Governor Baker signing a Municipal Relief legislation (H4598: An Act to Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities and State Authorities Resulting from COVID-19), the City of Springfield will adjust the deadline for filing personal exemption and deferral applications to June 1, 2020.  The original statutory deadline was April 1, 2020. Previously, the City of Springfield had adjusted the collection dates for 4
th
 quarter real estate and personal property taxes to June 1, 2020.  The original due date was May 1, 2020. The City of Springfield Assessor’s Office also encourages homeowners, renters and residents 65 years or older to consider applying for the Circuit Breaker Tax Credit as well. For more information and applications on these statutory abatement exemptions, please visit the city’s Board of Assessors website at 
www.springfield-ma.gov/finance/assessors
 or call the Assessor’s Office at (413) 787-6164.  Residents can also contact our city’s 311 Call Center at (413) 736-3111.  Please see the attached FY20 Personal Exemption Chart. FY2020_personal_exemption_chart.pdf
. City of Springfield to Adjust Collection Date for 4th Quarter Real Estate Property TaxesMayor Domenic J. Sarno has announced that following Governor Baker signing a Municipal Relief legislation (H4598: An Act to Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities and State Authorities Resulting from COVID-19), the City of Springfield will adjust the collection date for 4
th
 quarter real estate taxes to June 1, 2020, instead of the original due date of May 1, 2020. The due date for the collection of real estate taxes is a state statue and any changes required approval by the state Legislature and the Governor. Springfield Awards 30 Grants to City Restaurants as Part of the “Prime the Pump” Grant ProgramMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan announced today that 30 grants totaling over $225,000 for restaurants have been awarded as part of the city’s ‘Prime the Pump’ Grant Program in response to the economic crisis resulting from emergency closures due to Covid-19.  The Prime the Pump Program was announced on March 18, 2020.  The priority focus being on full service restaurants that needed to begin or expand their takeout and delivery operations to comply with the public health emergency orders and all the restaurants that continued to remain open and keep some of their workers employed.  Applications for the available grant funding became available on March 21, 2020 with a filing deadline of March 24, 2020.The City saw overwhelming interest in the grant program, with over $1 million in grant requests from 80 applications across the city. Those restaurants that were not awarded or did not receive their full funding request are eligible to apply in the upcoming Small Business Grant Fund for up to a total amount between both funds of $15,000.  The Small Business Grant Fund Application is anticipated to be released in the next few days.  View the list of tentative awards subject to contract execution 
here
.  City of Springfield Health Advisory and Recommendation for Face CoveringIn response to the ongoing and growing concerns of the spread of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) and out of an abundance of caution, Mayor Sarno and Health Commissioner Caulton-Harris are issuing a new joint public health advisory and recommendation for our residents.  The City of Springfield is asking residents to wear face coverings when out in public, especially in locations where people are in transit such as but not limited to; grocery and convenient stores, bus and train stations, pharmacies and medical facilities, pet supply stores, and hardware shops or if they otherwise leave their home to participate in an exempt activity.  A face covering can help prevent the spread of COVID-19 to other people.  A face covering can include anything that covers your nose and mouth, including dust masks, scarves and bandanas. Health care worker masks (surgical mask, N-95 or similar) must be preserved for people in the health care system.  It is important to note, that wearing a face covering should not give an individual a false sense of security. Residents are strongly encouraged to continue to follow all CDC and DPH protocols.This advisory and recommendation is made out of an abundance of caution and continues with the city’s best efforts of being proactive for the greater good of the community’s public health and wellness. Please see the attached City of Springfield Health Advisory and Recommendation for Face Covering. Springfield City Council and School Committee Schedule Virtual Meetings The Springfield City Council and School Committee have schedule virtual meetings. The City Council will hold their regular meeting virtually on Monday, April 6, 2020. The School Committee will hold their Budget and Finance Subcommittee meeting on Wednesday, April 8, 2020 and the meeting of the full School Committee will take place on Thursday, April 9, 2020.  Congressman Richard E. Neal Announces the signing of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.Congressman Richard E. Neal announced that the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, was signed into law on Friday, March 27, 2020. The CARES Act, in part, provides for an additional $5 for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program on which Springfield is set to receive $2,301,793 of CDBG funds.  Grantees may use CDBG funds for a range of eligible activities that prevent and respond to the spread of infectious diseases such as the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), such as: Buildings and Improvements, Including Public Facilities:Assistance to Businesses, including Special Economic Development AssistancePublic Services:The funds may also be used for planning, capacity-building, and technical assistance in the furtherance of these goals. Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles Extends the Renewal Deadline for Motor Vehicle RegistrationEffective April 1, 2020
, all passenger and dealer plate registrations that expired in March and passenger plates that are expiring in April have been extended for 60 days. Registrations that expired in March have been extended until May 31 and registrations that expire in April have been extended until June 30. Registration renewals can continue to be performed online at 
Mass.Gov/RMV
.
 Customers seeking to renew in-person will not be able to make an appointment and should delay their visit to a Service Center.
  
 In addition, the RMV recently implemented key changes to service delivery and organizational protocols:For details on all of these extensions and additional information on RMV services and the RMV’s response to COVID-19, please visit 
COVID-19 information
. Governor Baker Extends Order for Non-Essential Businesses to Remain Closed Until May 4, 2020In accordance with Governor Baker’s extension of his March 23, 2020 order, all businesses and organizations that do not provide “COVID-19 Essential Services” must continue to keep their physical workplaces and facilities closed to workers, customers and the public until May 4, 2020.Governor Baker also extended his stay-at-home advisory until May 4, 2020. Springfield Public Schools Begin Initiative to Distribute Laptops to StudentsSpringfield Public Schools is set to begin an initiative to put as many as 10,000 laptops in the hands of K-12 students who do not have access to a computer while they are at home. The laptop distribution initiative began today with a three-day registration period for families requesting a laptop.The initiative builds on the district’s Technology Plan. Implemented six years ago, the initiative provided a laptop for every Springfield Public School student in grades 3 through 12.  The program provided a computer for every two students in grades kindergarten through second. In recent years, the district piloted a program that allowed students at the pilot schools to bring the laptops home at night, rather than leave them at school.“Clearly, we were moving at a measured pace in the direction of providing a take-home laptop for every student, the coronavirus pandemic has forced us to quicken that pace exponentially,” said Superintendent of Schools Daniel Warwick. “As we engage in remote learning, it is important for us to make sure every student has access to the same resources.”The initiative will allow families with students who need a laptop to either pick it up via drive-through at the student’s school or those without transportation can arrange for home delivery. Both alternatives will be scheduled.  The Springfield Public Schools Information Technology Department, along with paraprofessionals, teachers, and Central Office staff who have volunteered to assist in the effort, will disinfect each laptop and help with distribution. The distribution process will follow appropriate social distancing guidelines to protect the health of staff, students and families.Laptops are currently expected to be ready for scheduled pick-up or delivery beginning on April 6, 2020. Schools will reach out directly to families who register for a laptop to inform them of the distribution schedule. Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles Issue No Walk-In PolicyThe RMV will be strictly enforcing a No Walk-In Policy.  Only Customers with Appointment Reservations Will Be Served for Required In-Person Transactions
  
 Effective Friday, March 27, 2020 the Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) is enforcing a strict no walk-in policy at its eight service centers that are open to the general public. The only transactions that will be processed at service centers are those that require an in-person transaction, including Commercial Driving Licenses or Permits (CDLs/CLPs), some new registrations, out-of-state conversions and new Mass IDs. Customers who need to complete these transactions will be required to make an online appointment reservation, and customers arriving without an appointment will be asked to leave and make an appointment online to return at a future date.
  
 Appointment reservations can be made online at in the 
myRMV Online Service Center
 under “Make or Cancel a Reservation.” Customers who make an appointment will receive a confirmation email that they should be prepared to show on arrival at their designated time at a specific service center. Customers can also call the Contact Center at 
857-368-8000
 to make a reservation. Mayor Sarno Petitions HUD for Additional CDBG Funds for Small Business AssistanceMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan today sent a letter to David Tille, Regional Administrator for HUD, seeking flexibility to redeploy potentially $500,000 additional CDBG funding for the “Prime the Pump” restaurant grant program and to assist small businesses with a direct grant initiative.  Previously the City had announced and released the “Prime the Pump” grant application, aimed at providing immediate financial relief for restaurants in Springfield that have transitioned to take out service models. The goal of the program is to help preserve jobs and assist restaurant businesses through this difficult time. Following up on this grant program, the city is seeking to utilize this additional CDBG funding from HUD for additional relief for our restaurants and other small businesses.Mayor Sarno states, “It’s critical that we do what we can to help support our small businesses during these difficult times.  I have directed my Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan to follow up with HUD Regional Administrator David Tille on this matter and to prepare program guidelines for as early as next week so that we can get this much-needed assistance out to our small businesses.  I want to thank Congressman Richard Neal for his continued leadership and for reaching out to HUD Secretary Ben Carson in support of our letter.”     Massachusetts Announces State Income Tax Filing Deadline Being Extended to July 15 Governor Charlie Baker, Lt. Governor Karyn Polito, Senate President Karen Spilka and House Speaker Robert DeLeo today announced an agreement to extend the 2019 state individual income tax filing and payment deadline from April 15 to July 15 due to the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak. This income tax relief is automatic and taxpayers do not need to file any additional forms to qualify.
 Individuals with questions or concerns regarding taxes can contact the Massachusetts Department of Revenue at (617) 887-6367 or send a secure e-message through 
MassTaxConnect
. Mayor Sarno Signs on to Letter Asking the President and Federal Government to Coordinate Efforts for the Purchasing and Distribution of Medical EquipmentMayor Domenic J. Sarno, on March 27, 2020, signed onto a letter from the Massachusetts Public Interest Research Group asking President Trump and the Federal Government to support our hospitals and healthcare facilities, and our cities, towns and states by using their federal power and authority to ramp up production of ventilators, PPE’s such as the N95 masks, testing kits and quicker turnaround for results, and other much-needed medical equipment.  Mayor Sarno stated, “This public health emergency situation has affected all of us across the nation.  The needs of our cities, states, hospitals and other healthcare facilities to proactively respond to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 has put stress upon our first responders and front line personnel.  It has pushed our resources to their limits.  Now more than ever, we need a coordinated effort on a national scale to meet the ever growing demands of the purchasing and distribution of medical equipment.” City of Springfield COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Situational Updates - March 25, 2020All city services continue to operate and serve the public’s needs. Imperative City services go beyond public safety and health care. Birth and death certificates still need to be issued, municipal lien certificates still need to be produced in order for house closings, payroll and benefits still need to be administered for City employees, IT services need to be available to assist employees working remotely.Those things considered, all city employees continue to provide essential city services under modified schedules, which include working remotely, alternating days working on site, or any combination, which has been determined as appropriate by the department head where services can continue with minimum interruptions. City of Springfield Coronavirus (COVID-19) Advisories, Recommendations, and Resource GuideThe City of Springfield has provided an Advisory, Recommendation and Resource guide to help provide guidance and assistance during this Public Health Emergency.  En Espanol: 
La Ciudad de Springfield Avisos, Recomendaciones y Guía de Recursos Sobre el Coronavirus (COVID-19) City of Springfield Office of Planning & Economic Development Resources
 The City of Springfield’s Office of Planning & Economic Development will continue to update their dedicated COVID-19 Business Resources page with information, resources, and guidance for businesses 
here
. Governor Baker Issues New Order on COVID-19 Essential Services
 Governor Charlie Baker issued an emergency order requiring all businesses and organizations that do not provide “COVID-19 Essential Services” to close their physical workplaces and facilities to workers, customers and the public as of Tuesday, March 24th at noon until Tuesday, April 7th at noon. These businesses are encouraged to continue operations remotely. The Governor also updated his Assemly Order, limiting gatherings to 10 people or less. The Governor has provided a list of Essential Services categories:Click below for the Governor's full Essential Services announcment, complete list, and assemblage order update and guidance: Governor Charlie Baker Orders All Non-Essential Businesses To Cease In Person Operation, Directs the Department of Public Health to Issue Stay at Home Advisory For Two Weeks  Hampden County Workforce BoardThe Hampden County Workforce Board has updated information for anyone who needs to apply for unemployment insurance and assistance from Hampden County MassHire One-Stop Career Centers. City of Springfield Public Health Emergency Recommendation
sFollowing up on Governor Baker’s order to close all daycares and childcare centers across the Commonwealth, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, upon the recommendation of Health Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris, is strongly encouraging other venues to voluntarily adhere to and follow these Public Health Emergency recommendations by taking precautionary measures needed.Due to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) situation, the city is reminding everyone to adhere to the social distancing recommendations and asking that certain venues take the precautionary measures needed during these public health emergency times by voluntarily discontinuing services.  The city is asking that barber shops, salons, hairdressers, tattoo and piercing studios, massage parlors and spas, and nail salons all take the precautionary measures during these public health emergency times and voluntarily discontinue services as to adhere to the social distancing guidelines of remaining at least six (6) feet apart.  Mayor Sarno Announces Grant Program to Assist Local RestaurantsThe City of Springfield has launched a grant program aimed to assist our local restaurants during these challenging times by making available, funds to help restaurant businesses that seek to reorganize their service delivery operations to meet the public health restrictions and retain their existing employees to degree possible.  Qualifying restaurants can apply for up to $15,000 to help with these expenses.  Western Mass EDC ResourcesWestern Mass EDC has provided a dedicated site listing available resources from both the state and community partners. U.S. small Business Administration Disaster Assistance to Small businessesThe U.S. Small Business Administration is offeringlow-interestfederal disaster loans for working capital for small businesses suffering substantial economic injury as a result of the Coronavirus (COVID-19).  Hampden County has been identified as an eligible region.   For more information about available SBA resources and services, please visit: SBA.gov/coronavirus. Governor Baker Announces Small Business Recovery Loan Fund The Baker-Polito Administration announced economic support for small businesses with a $10 million loan fund to provide financial relief to those that have been affected by COVID-19.  City of Springfield to Adjust Collection Dates for Certain FeesDue to the state of emergency that has been declared by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the City of Springfield, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno has announced that the City of Springfield will delay the due dates for the collection of certain fees. City Hall and All Municipal Buildings to Close to Pubic Due to the evolving concerns related to the spread of COVID-19 – Coronavirus and out of an abundance of caution, the City of Springfield has announced that it will be closing City Hall and all other municipal buildings to the public beginning Tuesday, March 17, 2020 until April 5, 2020. City of Springfield Declares State of EmergencyMayor Domenic J. Sarno joined with Superintendent of Schools Dan Warwick, and Health Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris today in announcing a state of emergency in the City of Springfield and the temporary closing of schools. Springfield Public Schools Updates & FAQsUpdates and news from the Springfield Public Schools.  Baystate Health COVID-19 InformationBaystate Health has a dedicated website for news and developments on the COVID-19 situation Massachusetts Department of Public Health & CDC COVID-19 Guidancehttps://www.mass.gov/resource/information-on-the-outbreak-of-coronavirus-disease-2019-covid-19
.https://www.mass.gov/info-details/covid-19-printable-fact-sheets
.https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/index.html
.https://www.coronavirus.gov/.Massachusetts COVID-19 Emergency Orders and GuidanceFace CoveringStay-at-HomeGatheringsBoating-Other Water Related ActivitiesFood-RelatedData ReportingHousingAgriculturalEmergency Medical ServicesSchools-Non-Emergency Child CareView all 
COVID-19 State of Emergency Orders
.  Movie theaters and outdoor performance venues;Museums, cultural and historical sites; Fitness centers and health clubs;Certain indoor recreational activities with low potential for contact;Professional sports teams, under the authority of league-wide rules, may hold games without spectatorsVisit Mass.Gov/RMV, login to your “myRMV” account, and find out if they are permitted to renew online.Renew online by August 12
th
 – your new standard license or ID card will be sent to you via U.S. Mail.The cost for renewing a driver’s license is $50. The cost for renewing an ID card is $25. These costs are the same for both a standard or REAL ID license or ID card. The cost for upgrading or amending a license or ID card outside of your renewal cycle is $25, which will be waived for participating, eligible RMV customers.Customers who renew online will have to wait until at least February 2021 to make an appointment for a REAL ID and have their $25 upgrade / amendment fee waived. Anyone who holds a valid U.S. passport or other federally-compliant form of identification may never need a RMV-issued REAL ID. ​Driver’s licenses and ID cards that expired or will expire in ​March, April, and May 2020 ​will now expire in ​September 2020.Driver’s licenses and ID cards that will expire in ​June​ have been extended until ​October 2020.​Driver’s licenses and ID cards that will expire in ​July​ have been extended until ​November 2020.Driver’s licenses and ID cards that will expire in ​August​ have been extended until December 2020. Indoor table service at restaurants;Close contact personal services, with restrictions;Retail dressing rooms, by appointment only;Offices, at 50 percent capacityGuidance for RestaurantsGuidance for Close-Contact Personal ServicesGuidance for Other IndustriesGuidance for Sectors Not Otherwise Addressed
 Phase 1 will be “Start:” limited industries resume operations with severe restrictionsPhase 2 will be “Cautious:” additional industries resume operations with restrictions and capacity limitsPhase 3 will be “Vigilant:” additional industries resume operations with guidancePhase 4 will be the “New Normal:” development of vaccine and/or therapy enables resumption of new normalSecurity personnel can be delineated by each club (ex. a pro and the head starter) and will be present to enforce social distancing. There can be no other employees working at the recreational component of the golf operation.All staff must wear face coverings while on the propertyClub facilities including but not limited to the club house, pro shop, restaurant, bag room and locker room must remain closedNo caddies allowedNo golf carts allowed, except as outlined below: 	
The use of a motorized cart may be permitted for any individual with a disability who is seeking a reasonable accommodation to ensure compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).  A golfer who wants to use a cart should provide documentation or otherwise certify in writing to the golf course that he or she has a disability that requires the use of the cart. 
Any carts used must be cleaned and sanitized after each use.  The course operator may not use non-essential employees to handle the renting and/or cleaning of the carts.  Only security and groundskeeping personnel are permitted on the premises.The use of a motorized cart may be permitted for any individual with a disability who is seeking a reasonable accommodation to ensure compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).  A golfer who wants to use a cart should provide documentation or otherwise certify in writing to the golf course that he or she has a disability that requires the use of the cart. Any carts used must be cleaned and sanitized after each use.  The course operator may not use non-essential employees to handle the renting and/or cleaning of the carts.  Only security and groundskeeping personnel are permitted on the premises.Push carts may be used. Players must either carry their own bag or use a push cartAll golfers must maintain proper social distancing of at least 6 feet at all timesGroups of players are restricted to no more than 4 players at one time.Members-only clubs can allow guests as determined by the security personnel on the golf coursePrivate clubs that allow non-members to make reservations can do so at their discretionMaintenance personnel are permitted to work on the golf courseTee Time Policy must be 15 minutes between groupsGolfers must stay in their car until 15 minutes before their tee time and must return to their car immediately following playOnline and remote payment options must be utilizedAll golfers must use their own golf clubs. Sharing golf clubs or rental golf clubs is not allowed.Flag sticks must remain in the hole. Hole liners must be raised so picking a ball out of the hole doesn't occurBunker rakes must be removed, and ball washers must be removed or covered.Practice putting green, driving range, and chipping areas must be closed.Facilities must have readily accessible hand sanitizerFire House Locations 413-787-6411FY2020_personal_exemption_chart.pdf
.Construct a facility for testing, diagnosis, or treatment.          Rehabilitate a community facility to establish an infectious disease treatment clinic.Acquire and rehabilitate, or construct, a group living facility that may be used to centralize patients undergoing treatment.Rehabilitate a commercial building or closed school building to establish an infectious disease treatment clinic, e.g., by replacing the HVAC system.Acquire, and quickly rehabilitate (if necessary) a motel or hotel building to expand capacity of hospitals to accommodate isolation of patients during recovery.Make interim improvements to private properties to enable an individual patient to remain quarantined on a temporary basis.Provide grants or loans to support new businesses or business expansion to create jobs and manufacture medical supplies necessary to respond to infectious disease.Avoid job loss caused by business closures related to social distancing by providing short-term working capital assistance to small businesses to enable retention of jobs held by low- and moderate-income persons.Provide technical assistance, grants, loans, and other financial assistance to establish, stabilize, and expand microenterprises that provide medical, food delivery, cleaning, and other services to support home health and quarantine.Carry out job training to expand the pool of health care workers and technicians that are available to treat disease within a community.Provide testing, diagnosis or other services at a fixed or mobile location.Increase the capacity and availability of targeted health services for infectious disease response within existing health facilities.Provide equipment, supplies, and materials necessary to carry-out a public service.Deliver meals on wheels to quarantined individuals or individuals that need to maintain social distancing due to medical vulnerabilities.Due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, the RMV has implemented a strict no walk-in policy at a limited number of Service Centers that remain open to the general public. Service for necessary in-person transactions is available by appointment only. Customers should visit 
Mass.Gov/RMV
 to make a reservation at an open Service Center or find information on over 40 transactions that can be conducted online, by phone, or by mail.All Driver's Licenses, ID cards, and Lerner's Permits, including Commercial Licenses and Permits that have expired or are expiring between March 1, 2020 and April 30, 2020, have had a 60-day extension applied to the current expiration date and do not need to be renewed at this time. This does not apply to customers whose end of stay in the United States is the same as the expiration date on their Driver’s License, ID card, or Learner’s Permit.CDL Medical Certificates that expire on or after March 1 until April 30 will be extended until June 30 to prevent license downgrades and elective medical visits, as well as alleviate demand on medical providers.The annual motor vehicle and emissions inspection stickers that expire on March 31 and April 30 have been extended 60 days and all motorcycle inspection stickers originally set to expire on May 31 must be inspected by June 30. The RMV is also extending the time during which newly registered vehicles must be inspected based on the purchase date.In addition, the RMV has suspended all road tests through April 12. Class D and M Learner's Permits knowledge exams have been suspended indefinitely.Commercial Learner’s Permit tests are available to be taken at the Milford and Wilmington RMV Service Centers during normal business hours and commercial road tests continue to occur.Health Care & Public HealthLaw Enforcement, Public Safety & First RespondersFood & AgricultureCritical ManufacturingTransportation EnergyWater & WastewaterPublic WorksCommunications and Information TechnologyFinancial ServicesDefense Industry BaseChemical Manufacturing & Hazardous MaterialsOther Designated Community Based Essential Function & Government OperationsNews Mediawww.masshirespringfield.orgwww.masshireholyoke.orgDPH Face Covering:  
Order
 | 
Guidance
 | 
Advisory
 in multiple languagesDPH 
Stay-at Home AdvisoryProhibiting Gatherings of More Than 10 People
Extended Order
 until May 18 | 
Press Release
Emergency Order
 until May 4 | 
Press Release
 | 
Assemblage Guidance
 | 
Essential Services FAQs
Essential Services And Revised Gatherings Order
 | 
Exhibit A of OrderExtended Order
 until May 18 | 
Press ReleaseEmergency Order
 until May 4 | 
Press Release
 | 
Assemblage Guidance
 | 
Essential Services FAQsEssential Services And Revised Gatherings Order
 | 
Exhibit A of OrderBusinesses and Organizations
Extension of Non-Essential Businesses and Organizations:  
Press Release
 | 
Order
 | 
Essential Services List 
| 
FAQs
Non-Healthcare Essential Service Workers Exposure Guidance
Non-Essential Businesses and Organizations: 
Order
 | 
Assemblage Guidance
 | 
Essential Services List
   Extension of Non-Essential Businesses and Organizations:  
Press Release
 | 
Order
 | 
Essential Services List 
| 
FAQsNon-Healthcare Essential Service Workers Exposure GuidanceNon-Essential Businesses and Organizations: 
Order
 | 
Assemblage Guidance
 | 
Essential Services List
   Coastal Beach Parking Areas Emergency OrderGeneral Questions – Essential Services RelatedExecutive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs: 
GuidanceGrocery Store Worker Priority TestingGrocery Store Occupancy Emergency OrderGrocery Stores and Pharmacies OrderFEMA guidance regarding food purchase and distribution costsCOVID-19 Response Reporting: 
DPH Order
 |  
Reporting cases by city and townEarly Education and Care:
Residential Programs and Emergency Placement for Children Emergency OrderResidential Programs and Emergency Placement for Children Emergency OrderCaregivers:
Community Day Programs: 
Guidance
Congregate Care Programs: 
Updated Residential and Congregate Care GuidanceCommunity Day Programs: 
GuidanceCongregate Care Programs: 
Updated Residential and Congregate Care GuidanceHotel and Motel 
Emergency Order Extension
 | 
Guidance
 | 
FAQ
This guidance and FAQ replace guidance 
previously released by the Department on March 31
 and an FAQ 
previously released by the Department on April 2
.Emergency Order Extension
 | 
Guidance
 | 
FAQ
This guidance and FAQ replace guidance 
previously released by the Department on March 31
 and an FAQ 
previously released by the Department on April 2
.This guidance and FAQ replace guidance 
previously released by the Department on March 31
 and an FAQ 
previously released by the Department on April 2
.Executive Office of Housing and Economic Development: 
COVID-19 Essential Services FAQsCOVID-19 Essential Services FAQsNurseries, Greenhouses, Garden Centers, and Agricultural Supply Store GuidanceDepartment of Agricultural Resources: 
Farmers' Markets, Farm Stands, & CSAs Guidance Memo #5DPH: 
Farmer’s Market Emergency OrderLocal Boards of Health and EMS: 
Order
 | 
GuidanceSchools and Non-Emergency Child Care Program closures through the remaining of the school year: 
Extension Order
  |  
Press ReleaseMA School Closure Order
 from March 17 until April 6


Scraping from https://www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=2990


The City of Springfield's Health and Human Services Department is currently monitoring the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) situation and will provide further updates as new developments and relevant information becomes available.UPDATE - July 13, 2020:  MGM Springfield, the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame and Springfield Musuems have all Reopened as part of the states Phase III Reopening PlanJuly 7, 2020: Mayor Sarno Toured MGM Springfield to See Comprehensive Reopening PlansJuly 2, 2020: Reopening Massachusetts: Governor Baker Announces Transition to Third Phase of Four-Phase Reopening Approach; 4th Round of Prime the Pump for Non-Profits AnnouncedJuly 1, 2020: Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Releases Update for Fall School Reopning GuidanceJune 30, 2020: Governor Baker Announces Updated Travel Guidelines to Support Massachusetts' COVID-19 Response June 22, 2020: Massachusetts Transitions to Step 2 of Phase 2 of Reopening; Massachusetts RMV Offers License Renewal Incentive June 17, 2020: City of Springfield Announces $500,000 in Third Round of Prime the Pump Grant ProgramJune 15, 2020: Governor Baker Announces Pop Up COVID-19 Testing for June 17 and 18June 8, 2020:  Sector-Specific Protocols and Best PracticesJune 5, 2020: Mayor Sarno Moves to Facilitate and Energize Restaurants' / Businesses' Bottom Lines and Our EconomyMay 29, 2020: Mayor Sarno joined Congressman Neal and PVTA Administrator Sheehan for Announcement of $36 million in CARES Act Funding to PVTAMay 22, 2020:  RMV Implements Further Credential ExtensionsMay 21, 2020: Mayor Sarno Announced Phased Reopening Plans for City of SpringfieldMay 18, 2020: Governor Baker Announced Four-Phased Plan for Reopening Massachusetts May 11, 2020: The Food Bank of Western Mass - Transportation to Get Food Through May 16th; Governor Baker Announces Four-Phase Approach to Reopening Massachusetts & Publishes Woekplace Safety StandardsMay 7, 2020: Governor Baker Updates Essential Services Guidance; City of Springfield Reopens Golf CoursesMay 5, 2020: Governor Baker Updates Essential Services GuidanceMay 1, 2020:  Governor Baker Issues Order Requiring Face Coverings to be worn in PublicApril 29, 2020: Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Announce Partnership with Mercy Medical to begin testing at the Springfield Rescue Mission April 28, 2020: City of Springfield Awards 76 New Grants to City Small Businesses as Part of the Second Round of “Prime the Pump”; Governor Charlie Baker Announced 'Stay at Home Advisory' and 'Closure of Non-essential Businesses' Extended Until May 18th; Springfield City Hall and All Municipal Buildings to Remain Closed to Public Until May 18, 2020; Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Announce Homeless Testing to Start in Partnership with Baystate Health SystemsApril 23, 2020: City of Springfield’s Administration and Finance Division Recognized with Distinguished Budget Presentation AwardApril 22, 2020: Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Report Major Spike of 104 New Cases Today; Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Issue New Public Health Advisory to Essential Retail EstablishmentsApril 21, 2020: Massachusetts Schools will Remain Closed this Academic YearApril 20, 2020: Governor Baker Signs Housing Bill Granting Moratorium on Evictions and Foreclosures; Governor Baker Announced Implementation of CARES Act Unemployment Benefits for Self-Employed and Other WorkersApril 17, 2020: Springfield Public Schools Announce Meals Available for All Kids, Not Just SPS StudentsApril 16, 2020: Masschusetts RMV Further Extends Certain DeadlinesApril 15, 2020:  Mayor Sarno Orders Hiring and Spending Freeze; MassMutual Offering $3 Billion in Free Life Insurance to Healthcare Workers on COVID-19 FrontlineApril 13, 2020: Mayor Sarno Continues to Closely Monitor COVID-19 Situation; City of Springfield Activates COVID-19 Hotline; Governor Baker Signs An Act to Further Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities, School Districts and State Authorities Resulting from COVID-19April 10, 2020: City of Springfield Releases Round Two of Prime the Pump Business Grant Program; Governor Baker Advises Massachusetts Residents to Wear Face Coverings April 9, 2020: MassHire to Hold Springfield Strong Online Job Expo; City of Springfield Responds to Massachusetts Gaming Commission Vote on MGM BudgetApril 8, 2020: City of Springfield to Adjust Deadline for Tax Relief Applications; Mass. DPH Issued an Emergency Order Regarding Grocery Store Operations and Occupancy Limits; Governor Baker and DPH Updated COVID-19 Essential Services FAQsApril 3, 2020: Mayor Sarno and Health Commissioner Caulton-Harris Issue New Public Health Advisory and Recommendation; Springfield Awards 30 Grants to City Restaurants as Part of the “Prime the Pump” Grant Program; City of Springfield to Adjust Collection Date for 4th Quarter Real Estate Property TaxesApril 2, 2020:  Springfield City Council and School Committee Schedule Virtual Meetings; Congressman Richard E. Neal Announces the signing of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act and CDBG Funding for Springfield; Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles Extends the Renewal Deadline for Motor Vehicle RegistrationApril 1, 2020:  Springfield Public Schools Add Additional Meal Site and Make Other AnnouncementsMarch 31, 2020:  Governor Baker Extends Order for Non-Essential Businesses to Remain Closed Until May 4, 2020March 30, 2020:  Mayor Sarno and Police Commissioner Clapprood Announce Partnership with MA State Police; Mayor Sarno gave his Weekly COVID-19 Situational Update; City of Springfield closes and prohibits all active recreational activities; Springfield Public Schools Begin Initiative to Distribute Laptops to Students.March 27, 2020: Governor Baker Announced New Travel Guidelines; Springfield City Library Announced Services Available; MassDOT-Registry of Motor Vehicles No-Walk-in Policy; City of Springfield Announces Contingency Plan for City’s Homeless Population; Mayor Sarno Signs on to Letter Asking the President and Federal Government to Coordinate Efforts for the Purchasing and Distribution of Medical Equipment; Massachusetts Announces State Income Tax Filing Deadline Being Extended to July 15; Mayor Sarno Petitions HUD for Additional CDBG Funds for Small Business Assistance; Mayor Sarno Announces Request for Massachusetts National GuardMarch 26, 2020: City Hall and All Municipal Buildings to Remain Closed to the Public Until May 4, 2020March 25, 2020: City of Springfield COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Situational UpdateMarch 24, 2020: City of Springfield Office of Planning & Economic Development ResourcesMarch 23, 2020: Governor Baker Issues New Order and AdvisoryMarch 19, 2020: City of Springfield Issues New Public Health Emergency RecommendationsMarch 18, 2020: City of Springfield Restaurant Grant Program, U.S. Small Business Administration Disaster Assistance to Small Businesses, and Western Mass Economic Development Council State and Community Partners ResourcesMarch 17, 2020: Governor Baker Announces Small Business Recovery Loan FundMarch 16, 2020: City Hall and All Municipal Buildings to Close to PubicMarch 13, 2020: City of Springfield Declares State of EmergencyMarch 11, 2020: Springfield Public SchoolsMarch 10, 2020: Baystate Health COVID-19 InformationMarch 4, 2020: Massachusetts Department of Public Health(UPDATE) July 13, 2020MGM Springfield, the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame and the Springfield Musuems have Reopened as part of the States Phase III Reopening PlanMGM Springfield reopened to the public today, with restrictions and under the state Phase III reopening plans.  The Massachusetts Gaming Commission also approved their reopening plan as their facility will follow all state and local public health measures and protocols to build consumer confidence while providing the world reknowned entertainment and draw they are known for.The Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame reopened on July 8th, with restrictions, following its $23 million renovation which began in 2017.  New exhibits and technological improvements will greet and wow visitors.  The Hall of Fame will also adhere to all state and local public health and safety measures and have implemented numerous protocols to assure visitor safety and wellbeing.  The Springfield Museums reopened today, with restrictions and public health and safety protocols.  A new exhibit based on Disney Junior's hit series "The Lion Guard" will great children and families, along with the Museums other nationaly reknowned displays and exhibits.    (UPDATE) July 7, 2020Mayor Sarno Toured MGM Springfield to See Comprehensive Reopening Plans Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, along with key members of his administration, joined with MGM Springfield President and COO Chris Kelley and other MGM officials for a tour of MGM Springfield to see first-hand their comprehensive reopening plans.  MGM Springfield is scheduled to reopen, in part and with restrictions, Monday, July 13, 2020.MGM Resorts’ will follow a comprehensive “Seven-Point Safety Plan”  which was developed in conjunction with an epidemiologist and other health experts to assure the wellbeing of the public and their workforce. MGM Springfield will also be following strict Massachusetts Gaming Commission (MGC) guidelines where the property will be adhering to a substantially reduced capacity limit during the initial phase of reopening.The City of Springfield will continue to work closely with MGM Springfield, medical experts, the MGC and other state officials as the casino begins the phased reopening of their facility and amenities. (UPDATE) July 2, 2020Reopening Massachusetts: Governor Baker Announces Transition to Third Phase of Four-Phase Reopening Approach The following businesses will be eligible to reopen in Step One of Phase III, subject to industry-specific rules concerning capacity and operations: Full guidance and list of businesses eligible to reopen in Step One of Phase III can be found at 
www.mass.gov/reopening
. Businesses and sectors set to begin opening in Phase III are subject to compliance with all mandatory safety standards.Revised Gatherings Order:
 Under the updated gatherings order, indoor gatherings are limited to eight people per 1,000 square feet, but should not exceed 25 people in a single enclosed, indoor space.Outdoor gatherings in enclosed spaces are limited to 25 percent of the facility’s maximum permitted occupancy, with a maximum of 100 people in a single enclosed outdoor space. This includes community events, civic events, sporting events, concerts, conventions and more. This order does not apply to outdoor, unenclosed gatherings if proper social distancing measures are possible.This revised order does not supersede previously issued sector guidance, and is effective beginning Monday, July 6. It will be effective Monday, July 13 in the City of Boston.Public Health Guidance:In Phase III, health care providers may continue to provide in-person procedures and services as allowed in Phase II, with the addition of certain group treatment programs and day programs. These programs include adult day health, day habilitation programs, and substance abuse services day treatment and outpatient services. Certain human services programs can reopen including community based day services for adults with intellectual and cognitive disabilities and psychosocial rehabilitation clubhouses.        Health care providers are subject to compliance with all mandatory safety standards, and must continue to utilize prioritization policies established in Phase II for care delivery and scheduling, as well as monitor patient volume for non-essential, elective procedures and services.Read the full guidance 
here
.In Phase III, visitation guidelines have been updated for 24/7 congregate care facilities and programs overseen by the Executive Office of Health and Human Services, including the Departments of Developmental Services, Youth Services, Children and Families, Public Health, Mental Health and the Mass Rehabilitation Commission. Offsite visits, including overnight visits, will be allowed, under specific guidelines. Other updated guidelines, including visitation for long term care facilities, will be released later today. Complete visitation guidance is available at 
www.mass.gov/hhs/reopening
.  MassHealth will also extend its current telehealth flexibility through at least the end of the year to ensure member access to critical health care services and encourage continued adherence to preventative public health precautions.  City of Springfield Announces $250,000 in Fourth Round of Prime the PumpMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan today announced the release of $250,000 for a Fourth Round of the Prime the Pump Grant Program, to assist Springfield non-profit organizations, which have been economically impacted by the Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic.  The Prime the Pump Program was initially announced on March 18, 2020.  Since that time, the city has advanced over $1,250,000 to assist the city’s small businesses and restaurants in dealing with the economic impacts of the pandemic and the associated public health orders.  The Prime the Pump Program to date has touched small businesses in every neighborhood of the city and has provided assistance to many minority and women owned businesses. Today’s announcement brings Springfield’s grant assistance to local employers to $1,500,000. (UPDATE) July 1, 2020Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Releases Update for Fall School Reopning Guidance The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education released 
initial guidance for school reopening
 on June 25th with a focus on safely returning as many student as possible to in-person settings. Those guidelines were updated on July 1st.  Visit the Massachusetts Department of Education website: 
http://www.doe.mass.edu/covid19/.
  (UPDATE) June 30, 2020Massachusetts Updated Travel Guidelines to Support COVID-19 Response Effective Wednesday, July 1, all travelers arriving to Massachusetts, including residents returning home, are instructed to self-quarantine for 14-days. This guidance does not apply to travelers from Rhode Island, Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, New York or New Jersey. Additionally, workers designated by the federal government as essential critical infrastructure workers are also exempt from this directive.  Travelers who are displaying symptoms of COVID-19 are instructed to not travel to Massachusetts. All visitors and residents of Massachusetts are also reminded that the use of masks or face coverings in public places where individuals cannot socially distance from others remains 
required
.These new guidelines replace 
previously announced
 Massachusetts travel guidance. For national travel information, please visit 
www.travel.state.gov
.  (UPDATE) June 22, 2020Massachusetts RMV Offers License Renewal Incentive The Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) is encouraging all eligible customers to renew their standard Massachusetts driver’s license or Massachusetts ID card online at Mass.Gov/RMV any time between now and August 12, 2020, in order to qualify for a free upgrade to a REAL ID credential in 2021. This one-time, time limited offer is available to most customers who have an expired or expiring license or ID card dated between March 2020 and August 2021, as renewals are allowed up to two years after expiration, or up to a year in advance of the expiration date printed on their license or ID.Qualifying customers who complete their renewal online prior to August 12
th
 and wish to upgrade to a REAL ID for free, will have to wait until at least February 2021 to visit an RMV Service Center. At this time, customers will not need a federally-compliant REAL ID for the purposes of boarding domestic flights prior to October 1, 2021 because the federal government delayed the compliance effective date by one-year. The fee for obtaining a standard or REAL ID license is $50, while the fee for obtaining a standard or REAL ID card is $25. The typical $25 upgrade / amendment fee will be waived under these qualifying circumstances. A limited digital campaign – 
“Stay Safe, Save Time, Go Online
”
 -- will also accompany this promotion and can be viewed at this link:https://youtu.be/B3NuHgTwa3Q Massachusetts Transitions to Step 2 of Phase 2 of Reopening The following will be eligible to reopen in Step Two of Phase II on Monday, June 22:Full list and safety protocols available at 
www.mass.gov/reopening
.In order to give Step 2 businesses time to prepare, the Administration had previously released sector-specific guidance in advance of Phase II for industries including restaurants, close-contact personal services and sectors not otherwise addressed:  Before these sectors can resume operations under the guidelines, businesses must meet all safety standards, create a COVID-19 control plan, and complete a self-certification.VIEW CONTROL PLAN TEMPLATESVIEW GOVERNOR BAKER’S PHASE II EXECUTIVE ORDER (UPDATE) Update June 17, 2020 City Announced $500,000 in Third Round of Prime the Pump Grant ProgramApplications for the Third Round of Prime the Pump are due July 1, 2020 by 3:00 p.m. and must be submitted electronically to the attention of Anthony Moore at 
amoore@springfieldcityhall.comInterested parties can download the application at the City of Springfield’s Planning and Economic Development website at: 
www.springfield-ma.gov/plan
ningClick on the links below to view the Guidelines and to download the application.PTP ROUND 3 GuidelinesPTP ROUND 3 Application (UPDATE)  June 15, 2020Governor Baker Announces Pop Up COVID-19 Testing for June 17 and 18The Commonwealth is urging anyone who has attended a large gathering in the past two weeks to get tested for COVID-19. This testing may be provided at no cost to you on June 17th and 18th.More info: 
www.mass.gov/info-details/get-tested-for-covid-19-june-17th-and-18th
.
 Springfield Testing Locations140 High St.           380 Plainfield St.      298 Carew St. Call 413-795-8378 ­(UPDATE) June 8, 2020Sector-Specific Protocols and Best PracticesGovernor Baker has updated the sector-specific mandatory safety standards and recommended best practices to include restaurants and retail businesses as part of the Commonwealth's Phase II reopening plans.  (UPDATE)  June 5, 2020Mayor Sarno Moves to Facilitate and Energize Restaurants' / Businesses' Bottom Lines and Our Economy Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and the City’s Licensing Department announced today that pursuant to Governor Baker’s Executive Order, applicable guidance from the Commonwealth and input from various municipal departments, the City of Springfield has issued guidance and applications for temporary extension of licensed premises to outdoor space.As part of the Commonwealth’s and the City of Springfield’s Phase II reopening plan.  Restaurants and other establishments will now be able to seek a temporary extension of their license to provide outdoor table service.  Applications for temporary modifications of Liquor Licenses do not need to be submitted to the State’s Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission (ABCC). Review and approval of a modified permit from the ABCC will be made at the local level and notification to the State will be made by the City of Springfield.(UPDATE)  May 29, 2020Mayor Sarno joined Congressman Neal and PVTA Administrator Sheehan for Announcement of $36 million in CARES Act Funding to PVTAMayor Domenic J. Sarno, today, joined with Congressman Richard E. Neal, and Pioneer Valley Transit Authority (PVTA) Administrator Sandra Sheehan for the announcement of $36,615,416 in Federal Transit Authority funding as a result of the CARES Act.This funding will enable the PVTA to provide transit service during the COVID-19 public health emergency while also allowing the PVTA to respond to new transit operations needs post COVID-19. The grant is 100% federal funds with no local match required.   (UPDATE) - May 22, 2020RMV Implements Further Credential ExtensionsThe Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) has implemented further extensions to the renewal timelines for expiring motor vehicle inspection stickers, passenger plate registrations, professional credentials, and driver's licenses and learner's permits, including Commercial Driver’s Licenses and Commercial Permits (CDLs / CLPs).While the RMV previously announced extensions for most credentials, passenger plate registrations, and inspection stickers expired or expiring in 
March, April, and May
, an additional extension has been applied to those credentials, and an extension has been added to some credentials expiring in 
June, July, and August
. (UPDATE) - May 21, 2020: Mayor Sarno Announced Phased Reopening Plans for City of SpringfieldConduct City Business Remotely or Contact the Appropriate Department Directly to Schedule an Appointment As part of the City of Springfield’s phased reopening plan, all municipal buildings and facilities will be reopening to the public, by appointment only, along with other restrictions, starting Wednesday, May 27, 2020.  All municipal buildings will remain closed to walk-in traffic. Individuals will need to schedule an appointment with the appropriate city department they are looking to do their city related business with, as there will be a limit to the number of individuals inside city buildings and city offices.Residents can schedule an appointment with the city department they need to conduct business with by calling either our 311 Call Center or by contacting that city department directly.  Appointments must be made at least 24 hours in advance.
 Click 
here 
for Contact Info by Department. (UPDATE) - May 18, 2020: Governor Baker Announces Four-Phased Plan for Reopening The Baker-Polito Administration announced today the comprehensive plan to safely reopen the Massachusetts economy, get people back to work, and to ease social restrictions while minimizing the health impacts of COVID-19 (Coronavirus).Governor Baker announced the states Four-Phased plan of reopening the Commonwealth.  The phases will be "Start", "Cautious", "Vigliant", and "the New Normal", respectively.  Residents and Businesses are encouraged to visit the states "
Reopening Massachusetts
" website which provides additional information and guidance about the phased reopening and which industries and sectors are allowed to open and when at 
www.mass.gov/reopeningClick the link below to view the detailed guidance for specific industries and sectors on the opening plan, as issued by the Governor.Reopening Massachusetts: Guidance for industries on the reopening plan - as of May 18, 2020Click on the line below to view the detailed report on the reopening of Massachusetts, as issued by the Governor.Reopening Massachusetts Report (UPDATE) - May 11, 2020:Governor Baker Announces Four-Phase Approach to Reopening Massachusetts & Publishes Workplace Safety Standards On Monday, May 11, 2020, Governor Baker announced a four-phased approach to reopening the Massachusetts economy amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, and published Mandatory Workplace Safety Standards that will apply across all sectors and industries once reopening begins.
 ​​​​​The Massachusetts economy will be reopened using a four-phase approach, based on public health guidance. Businesses and activities with a lower risk of COVID-19 transmission will open in earlier phases. Public health metrics will determine when the first phase of reopening begins, as well as when it is safe to move into later phases. If public health metrics worsen, the state may need to return to an earlier phase.The Department of Public Health (DPH) and the COVID-19 Command Center developed new Mandatory Workplace Safety Standards in consultation with the Reopening Advisory Board. These new standards will apply universally to all workplaces that are open in Phase 1, and are designed to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission to employees and customers during the first phase of reopening, and are applicable to all sectors and industries. 
Read more on Work Place Safety Standards at mass.gov. The Reopening Advisory Board is scheduled to provide its full report to Governor Baker on Monday, May 18
th
.  Food Transportation - The Food Bank of Western MassThe Food Bank of Western Mass has been authorized to give out LYFT codes " for people in Holyoke, Chicopee, or Springfield needing transportation to get food, the codes will give you a round trip to a grocery store, farm- stand or food pantry up to $10 each way. Codes can be obtained through May 16, 2020 by calling The Food Bank at 413-387-3849.(UPDATE) - May 7, 2020:Governor Baker Updates Essential Services GuidanceGovernor Baker has updated the Essential Services Guidance to allow golf courses to reopen on Thursday, May 7, 2020, with strict guidelines and restrictions such as prohibiting golf carts, bunker rakes and caddies. City of Springfield to Reopen Golf CoursesFollowing the Governor's update to the Commonwealths Essential Services Guidance of allowing golf courses to reopen but under strict guidelines and restrictions.  Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and Patrick Sullivan, Executive Director of Parks, Buildings and Recreation Management, announced today during the Mayor’s daily COVID-19 (Coronavirus) cabinet heads meeting that the City of Springfield will be reopening the municipal golf courses on Sunday, May 10, 2020. (UPDATE) - May 5, 2020:Governor Baker Updates Essential Services GuidanceGovernor Baker updated the Essential Services Guidence easing restrictions on certain retail establishments for "remote fulfillment" and "no-contact" deliveries for many non-essential businesses including florist, bookstores, jewelers, etc.   The new guidelines require these stores to remain closed to the public and limit operating hours to allow for sufficient off-hour cleaning. Employees must wear face coverings and stay at least six feet apart from one another, and all deliveries must be "no-contact" deliveries to consumers.The guidelines also limit the number of employees that can work at a given time, starting with three in a business smaller than 10,000 square feet and growing to seven in a facility with more than 30,000 square feet.Employers must also require workers to self-administer temperature checks before their shifts, and not report to work if they have a fever over 100 degrees. (UPDATE) - May 1, 2020:Governor Baker Issues Order Requiring Face Coverings to be worn in PublicGovernor Charlie Baker issued an order requiring everyone in the Commonwealth to wear face coverings in public - including in businesses, outdoors, or on public transportation.  The order will go into effect on Wednesday.     (UPDATE) - April 29, 2020:Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Announce Partnership with Mercy Medical to begin testing at the Springfield Rescue Mission
 Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and Health and Human Services (HHS) Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris announced today that the City of Springfield in partnership with Mercy/Trinity Health will have all systems in place to continue testing of our vulnerable homeless population at the Springfield Rescue Mission’s Taylor Street site on Friday or Saturday and will begin to mobilize at the Rescue Mission’s Mill Street site by next week.  (UPDATE) - April 28, 2020: Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Announce Homeless Testing to Start in Partnership with Baystate Health SystemsMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Health and Human Services (HHS) Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris announced today that the City of Springfield in partnership with Baystate Health will have all systems in place to begin testing of our vulnerable homeless population starting tomorrow at the city’s Worthington Street site.Mayor Sarno stated, “I am very thankful to Commissioner Caulton-Harris for her continued yeoman efforts and to Dr. Mark Keroack, President and CEO of Baystate Health Systems, and his team for once again stepping up to the plate and delivering.  Additionally, working together, Baystate, with a providers note, will expand overall testing opportunities at their Carew and High Streets sites and per my request establish neighborhood-testing site by the end of this week at their Brightwood Health Center on Plainfield Street.  We are also working together on a stand up testing site at the Mason Square Health Center very shortly too.” Springfield City Hall and All Municipal Buildings to Remain Closed to Public Until May 18, 2020 - Mayor Sarno to Review Plans for Eventual Reopening - Following Governor Charlie Baker’s extension of the Commonwealths stay-at-home advisory and closing of all non-essential businesses order, City Hall and all municipal buildings will remain closed to the public until May 18, 2020.  The original date in which the state and local municipalities and non-essential businesses would have been able to reopen was May 4, 2020.    Mayor Domenic J. Sarno also announced that he has directed his cabinet heads to begin reviewing plans and what measures that are going to be needed for the eventual reopening of City Hall and other municipal buildings.  Mayor Sarno has also directed his cabinet heads to begin reviewing the city’s plans for when the Governor’s non-essential business closing order expires.   Mayor Sarno states, “Following Governor Baker’s extension and after meeting again with my cabinet heads, City Hall and all municipal buildings will remain closed to the public until May 18, 2020.  I have also directed by cabinet heads, who have been tested and true, to begin reviewing our plans for the eventual reopening of the city.  Though, like everyone else we’re chomping at the bit to reopen, we do not want to ‘jump the gun’ and reopen to soon, we must remain prudent and vigilant.  My city team will begin reviewing what measures and protocols are going to be needed to reopen in controlled phases - out of an abundance of caution.  We have to be smart on how we approach this.  We will continue to listen to all of the medical and health experts and professionals so that when we do begin to reopen in phases, we do so with the utmost confidence for our residents and business community.”          Governor Baker announced back on March 15, 2020, Emergency Actions to help address and mitigate the potential spread of COVID-19.  The City of Springfield continues to follow and adhere to all of the public health and safety guidelines and measures as directed by the Governor’s Office, Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH), and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  All City of Springfield employees continue to report to work as directed and under the discretion of their managers.  Departments will remain open in a modified aspect.  The City of Springfield will continue to maintain all essential functions and services.  Residents are encouraged to continue to conduct their city related business remotely when possible by utilizing our 311 Call Center at (413) 736-3111 and our website at 
www.springfield-ma.gov
.  Governor Charlie Baker Announced Massachusetts' "Stay at Home Advisory" and "Closure of Non-essential Businesses" Extended Until May 18th This afternoon, Governor Baker announced that he is extending the state's emergency order closing non-essential businesses as well as the state's stay-at-home advisory until May 18th.  Governor Baker also announced the creation of a reopening advisory board. City of Springfield Awards 76 New Grants to City Small Businesses as Part of the Second Round of “Prime the Pump”
 Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan announced today the awarding of 76 grants totaling $500,000 in the second round of the Prime the Pump program, assisting businesses in response to the economic crisis spurred from emergency closures due to Covid-19.The City saw overwhelming interest in the grant program, with over $1.5 million in grant requests from 114 applications across the city, all submitted in just one week.The Prime the Pump Program was initially announced on March 18, 2020.  With these awards, the city has now awarded 106 emergency grants to businesses in two rounds of Prime the Pump. The first round of the program awarded 30 grants to restaurants while the second round was open to businesses of all types. Between the two programs, the city has now awarded over $725,000 in grants to Springfield businesses. 
 The tentative awards subject to contract execution are listed 
here
. (UPDATE) - April 23, 2020:City of Springfield’s Administration and Finance Division Recognized with Distinguished Budget Presentation Award
 Mayor Domenic J. Sarno is proud to report that the city’s Administration and Finance Division, led by Chief Administrative and Financial Officer (CAFO) TJ Plante, has been recognized by the Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada (GFOA) with the prestigious Distinguished Budget Presentation Award.  
 Mayor Sarno and CAFO Plante are pleased to announce that the city’s FY19 budget submission was recognized by GFOA and awarded this honor.  This award is the highest form of recognition in governmental budgeting and represents a significant achievement for the City of Springfield.  This acknowledgement also marks the 12
th
 year in a row in which the city has received this award.UPDATE (April 21, 2020):Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Issue New Public Health Advisory to Essential Retail EstablishmentsOn the heels of the major spike in the daily number of positive COVID-19 cases, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno and Health and Human Services (HHS) Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris today issued a new Public Health Advisory to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) and to continue to stress the importance of following social distancing  guidelines and public health and safety measures.The City of Springfield is asking those stores that provide essential services (such as grocery stores, pharmacies, large box stores, convenience and retail stores, etc.) to partner with the city and require their patrons to wear face coverings.  Springfield appreciates Big Y for already taking this proactive approach and the city strongly encourages and recommends that other essential retail establishments partners with the city for the good of all.  The City’s Health and Human Services (HHS) Department continues to review and monitor the COVID-19 situation.  HHS staff continue to be proactive in the community by visiting sites across the city to assure that the public health emergency orders and recommendations issued by Governor Baker, the CDC and Mayor Sarno are being followed and adhered to. Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris Report Major Spike of 104 New Cases TodayMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Health and Human Services (HHS) Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris report a major spike of 104 new COVID-19 (Coronavirus) cases today, bringing the city’s total to nearly 1,000 cases (967).Mayor Sarno and HHS Commissioner Caulton-Harris state that the city will continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation closely so that the city does not reopen and ease the prudent measures to early, which could potentially expose residents to a second wave of the virus. UPDATE (April 21, 2020):Massachusetts Schools will Remain Closed this Academic YearGovernor Charlie Baker and the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education announced on April 21st that Massachusetts students will remain home for the rest of the school year to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Remote learning will continue.  UPDATE (April 20, 2020): Governor Baker Signs Housing Bill Granting Moratorium on Evictions and ForeclosuresGovernor Baker signed a housing security bill (H4647) which establishes a moratorium on evictions and foreclosures until after the coronavirus pandemic.  The moratorium will last for 120 days, or until 45 days after Governor Baker lifts the COVID-19 state of emergency. The bill does not absolve tenants or homeowners from paying their rents or mortgages, but does protect them from paying late penalties as long as they demonstrate that their inability to pay during the crisis is due to a hardship caused by the pandemic. Governor Baker Announced Implementation of CARES Act Unemployment Benefits for Self-Employed and Other WorkersGovernor Baker announced that residents who were not eligible for regular unemployment benefits can now apply online for the new Pandemic Unemployment Assistance (PUA) Program.  The new federal PUA program provides up to 39 weeks of unemployment benefits who are unable to work because of a COVID-19-related reason but are not eligible for regular or extended unemployment benefits. This includes self-employed workers, independent contractors, gig economy workers, and those with limited work history. Applicants can learn more and apply at 
www.mass.gov/pua
. UPDATE (April 17, 2020):Free Meals for All Kids - Not Just SPS Students Meal service provided by Springfield Public Schools’ food service provider, Sodexo, is available to not only Springfield Public Schools students but to students from all schools in Springfield and from surrounding communities. “We’ve had a great number of inquiries from parents of students in surrounding cities and towns asking if they can take advantage of our free meal program during this closure and I want to be very clear that answer is a resounding yes,” said Superintendent of Springfield Public Schools Daniel Warwick. “Families from surrounding communities and Springfield families whose children do not attend Springfield Public Schools are more than welcome.” Free breakfast and lunch are available each weekday for all students, regardless of their city or town of residence or of the school they attend. The meals are grab-and-go and are available between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Monday – Friday at 17 locations throughout the City. Identification is not required when picking up a meal.UPDATE (April 16, 2020):Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles Further Extends DeadlinesThe Massachusetts RMV has implemented further extensions for expiring motor vehicle inspection stickers, passenger plate registrations, professional credentials, and licenses and permits, including Commercial Driver’s Licenses and Permits (CDLs / CLPs).
 While 60-day extensions had already been implemented for most credentials, passenger plate registrations, and inspection stickers expired or expiring in March and April, this new action will apply the same 60-day extension to those expiring in May. Additionally, credentials expiring in March 2020 that previously were extended by 60 days will have an additional 60-day extension applied. UPDATE (April 15, 2020):MassMutual Offering $3 Billion in Free Life Insurance to Healthcare Workers on COVID-19 FrontlineEarlier today, MassMutual announced the launch of their HealthBridge Program, which will provide free term life insurance to the brave and resilient frontline healthcare workers across Massachusetts and Connecticut risking their lives during the COVID-19 pandemic.This 
program
 
 will offer our brave and dedicated healthcare providers a free 3-year term life insurance policy for employees of licensed hospitals, urgent care centers, or emergency medical services providers.Mayor Sarno states, “Once again MassMutual is a well-respected national industry leader that never forgets its roots of providing during challenging times.  Thank you Roger Crandall and Team for once again stepping up, especially for all those frontline healthcare providers, who keep us safe and sound.”Interested individuals can find more information on the MassMutual HealthBridge webpage at 
www.massmutual.com/cm/healthbridge
. Mayor Sarno Orders Hiring and Spending FreezeMayor Domenic J. Sarno announced that after consulting with CAFO TJ Plante, he has ordered the City of Springfield to implement a hiring and spending freeze due to the ongoing economic impact from the COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic.  This decision was based on a recent economic roundtable discussion with state officials and economists over concerns of the ongoing coronavirus situation and its impact upon projected federal, state and municipal revenue shortfalls. UPDATE  (April 13, 2020):Mayor Sarno Continues to Closey Monitor COVID-19 Situation Mayor Sarno and his administration continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation closely so that we do not reopen and ease our prudent measures too early, which could potentially expose our residents to second wave of the virus. As other countries have experienced, lifting restrictions prematurely has led to a resurgence of the virus and a second-wave outbreak of infections. Mayor Sarno is senstive to this possibiity as he monitors and assesses the situtation.  City of Springfield Activates COVID-19 HotlineThe city's Department of Health and Human Services activated its 24/7 hotline Monday April 13, 2020. Residents can call 413-750-3250 for questions related to COVID-19. The Department of Health and Human Services continues to track positive COVID-19 cases across the city. Governor Baker Signs An Act to Further Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities, School Districts and State Authorities Resulting from COVID-19Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System (MCAS) testing requirements for the school year are suspended, the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education will modify or waive graduation requirements for students set to complete high school this summer, and due dates for district improvement plans will be pushed back under a bill Gov. Charlie Baker signed into law Friday.UPDATE  (April 10, 2020):Governor Baker Advises Massachusetts Residents to Wear Face Coverings Governor Charlie Baker announced today that the Massachusetts Department of Public Health will issue an advisory recommending that people wear face masks or other face coverings in public. The advisory is consistent with recommendations issued by the CDC. 
 The City of Springfield's advisory regarding face coverings can be found 
here
. 
City of Springfield Releases Round Two of Prime the Pump Business Grant ProgramMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Tim Sheehan, Chief Development Officer, today announced the release of Round Two of the “Prime the Pump” grant program, aimed at providing immediate financial relief for small businesses in Springfield. The goal of the program is to help preserve jobs and assist businesses through this difficult time and as the federal assistance through the Small Business Administration and other entities is being rolled out.  Grants in the Prime the Pump program will be awarded of up to $15,000 to eligible businesses. The Prime the Pump program has already awarded $222,000 in its first round, assisting 30 restaurants in preserving a minimum of 30 jobs throughout the city. Mayor Sarno authorized an additional $500,000 of CDBG carryover funding to allow for a second round to address more business needs in the city. Applications will only be accepted by email. Interested businesses seeking an application should email Anthony Moore in the Economic Development office at 
Amoore@springfieldcityhall.com
 or directly download an application from the 
City of Springfield’s COVID-19 Business Resources site on the Planning & Economic Development page 
of the city website.UPDATE  (April 9, 2020):City of Springfield Responds to Massachusetts Gaming Commission Vote on MGM BudgetIn response to the Massachusetts Gaming Commission’s vote granting MGM Springfield and other casinos in the Commonwealth some relief from monetary assessments collected by the Gaming Commission, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno is asking MGM to continue to meet its full obligations under the Host Community Agreement.MassHire to Hold Springfield Strong Online Job ExpoMassHire is holding a no cost online staff recruitment expo on April 28th, 29th & 30th. This event will be promoted through MassHire;s medoa partners 94.7WMAS, WEEI 105.5 and Nash Icon 98.1. Employers can advertise their openings on MassHire's dedicated web page with hyperlinks to job postings, company logo, company description and optional video embed.Contact: 
 JoAnn Miller, Director Business Services 
 MassHire Springfield Career Center 
 413-858-2851 
jmiller@masshirespringfield.org
 UPDATE (April 8, 2020):City of Springfield to Adjust Deadline for Tax Relief ApplicationsMayor Domenic J. Sarno has announced that following Governor Baker signing a Municipal Relief legislation (H4598: An Act to Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities and State Authorities Resulting from COVID-19), the City of Springfield will adjust the deadline for filing personal exemption and deferral applications to June 1, 2020.  The original statutory deadline was April 1, 2020. Previously, the City of Springfield had adjusted the collection dates for 4
th
 quarter real estate and personal property taxes to June 1, 2020.  The original due date was May 1, 2020. The City of Springfield Assessor’s Office also encourages homeowners, renters and residents 65 years or older to consider applying for the Circuit Breaker Tax Credit as well. For more information and applications on these statutory abatement exemptions, please visit the city’s Board of Assessors website at 
www.springfield-ma.gov/finance/assessors
 or call the Assessor’s Office at (413) 787-6164.  Residents can also contact our city’s 311 Call Center at (413) 736-3111.  Please see the attached FY20 Personal Exemption Chart. FY2020_personal_exemption_chart.pdf Mass. DPH Issued an Emergency Order Regarding Grocery Store Operations and Occupancy LimitsOn April 7, the Massachusetts Commissioner of Public Health issued additional guidance for grocery stores and local boards of health related to the March 25, 2020 Order of the Commissioner regarding grocery stores.  Governor Baker's Updated COVID-19 Essential Services FAQsThis list of FAQs provided by the Governor's Office addresses many of the submissions received by EOHED relating to  “
COVID-19 Essential Services
” guidance associated with Governor Baker’s March 23, 2020 Emergency Order (which was updated and extended on March 31, 2020). UPDATE (April 3, 2020):City of Springfield to Adjust Collection Date for 4th Quarter Real Estate Property TaxesMayor Domenic J. Sarno has announced that following Governor Baker signing a Municipal Relief legislation (H4598: An Act to Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities and State Authorities Resulting from COVID-19), the City of Springfield will adjust the collection date for 4
th
 quarter real estate taxes to June 1, 2020, instead of the original due date of May 1, 2020. The due date for the collection of real estate taxes is a state statue and any changes required approval by the state Legislature and the Governor.Springfield Awards 30 Grants to City Restaurants as Part of the “Prime the Pump” Grant ProgramMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan announced today that 30 grants totaling over $225,000 for restaurants have been awarded as part of the city’s ‘Prime the Pump’ Grant Program in response to the economic crisis resulting from emergency closures due to Covid-19.  The Prime the Pump Program was announced on March 18, 2020.  The priority focus being on full service restaurants that needed to begin or expand their takeout and delivery operations to comply with the public health emergency orders and all the restaurants that continued to remain open and keep some of their workers employed.  Applications for the available grant funding became available on March 21, 2020 with a filing deadline of March 24, 2020.The City saw overwhelming interest in the grant program, with over $1 million in grant requests from 80 applications across the city. Those restaurants that were not awarded or did not receive their full funding request are eligible to apply in the upcoming Small Business Grant Fund for up to a total amount between both funds of $15,000.  The Small Business Grant Fund Application is anticipated to be released in the next few days.  View the list of tentative awards subject to contract execution 
here
. Mayor Sarno and Health Commissioner Caulton-Harris Issue New Public Health Advisory and RecommendationIn response to the ongoing and growing concerns of the spread of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) and out of an abundance of caution, Mayor Sarno and Health Commissioner Caulton-Harris are issuing a new joint public health advisory and recommendation for our residents.  The City of Springfield is asking residents to wear face coverings when out in public, especially in locations where people are in transit such as but not limited to; grocery and convenient stores, bus and train stations, pharmacies and medical facilities, pet supply stores, and hardware shops or if they otherwise leave their home to participate in an exempt activity.
Read advisory. UPDATE (April 2, 2020):Springfield City Council and School Committee Schedule Virtual Meetings The Springfield City Council and School Committee have schedule virtual meetings.  The City Council will hold their regular meeting virtually on Monday, April 6, 2020.  The School Committee will hold their Budget and Finance Subcommittee meeting on Wednesday, April 8, 2020 and the meeting of the full School Committee will take place on Thursday, April 9, 2020.  Congressman Richard E. Neal Announces the signing of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.Congressman Richard E. Neal announced that the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, was signed into law on Friday, March 27, 2020. The CARES Act, in part, provides for an additional $5 for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program on which Springfield is set to receive $2,301,793 of CDBG funds.  Grantees may use CDBG funds for a range of eligible activities that prevent and respond to the spread of infectious diseases such as the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), such as: Buildings and Improvements, Including Public Facilities:Assistance to Businesses, including Special Economic Development AssistancePublic Services:The funds may also be used for planning, capacity-building, and technical assistance in the furtherance of these goals. Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles Extends the Renewal Deadline for Motor Vehicle RegistrationEffective April 1, 2020
, all passenger and dealer plate registrations that expired in March and passenger plates that are expiring in April have been extended for 60 days. Registrations that expired in March have been extended until May 31 and registrations that expire in April have been extended until June 30. Registration renewals can continue to be performed online at 
Mass.Gov/RMV
. UPDATE (April 1, 2020):Springfield Public Schools Add Additional Meal Site and Make Other AnnouncementsThe Springfield Public Schools have announced the addition of Sumner Ave to the Meals Program.  This brings the total number of locations up to 17.Other announcements include, the School Department initiating plans to include dinner to the Meal Program and to begin the distribution of laptops to students. UPDATE (March 31, 2020):Governor Baker Extends Order for Non-Essential Businesses to Remain Closed Until May 4, 2020.In accordance with Governor Baker’s extension of his March 23, 2020 order, all businesses and organizations that do not provide “COVID-19 Essential Services” must continue to keep their physical workplaces and facilities closed to workers, customers and the public until May 4, 2020.Governor Baker also extended his stay-at-home advisory until May 4, 2020. UPDATE (March 30, 2020):Springfield Public Schools Begin Initiative to Distribute Laptops to StudentsSpringfield Public Schools is set to begin an initiative to put as many as 10,000 laptops in the hands of K-12 students who do not have access to a computer while they are at home. The laptop distribution initiative began today with a three-day registration period for families requesting a laptop.The initiative builds on the district’s Technology Plan. Implemented six years ago, the initiative provided a laptop for every Springfield Public School student in grades 3 through 12.  The program provided a computer for every two students in grades kindergarten through second. In recent years, the district piloted a program that allowed students at the pilot schools to bring the laptops home at night, rather than leave them at school.“Clearly, we were moving at a measured pace in the direction of providing a take-home laptop for every student, the coronavirus pandemic has forced us to quicken that pace exponentially,” said Superintendent of Schools Daniel Warwick. “As we engage in remote learning, it is important for us to make sure every student has access to the same resources.”The initiative will allow families with students who need a laptop to either pick it up via drive-through at the student’s school or those without transportation can arrange for home delivery. Both alternatives will be scheduled.  The Springfield Public Schools Information Technology Department, along with paraprofessionals, teachers, and Central Office staff who have volunteered to assist in the effort, will disinfect each laptop and help with distribution. The distribution process will follow appropriate social distancing guidelines to protect the health of staff, students and families.Laptops are currently expected to be ready for scheduled pick-up or delivery beginning on April 6, 2020. Schools will reach out directly to families who register for a laptop to inform them of the distribution schedule. Mayor Sarno and Police Commissioner Clapprood Announce Partnership with MA State PoliceMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Police Commissioner Cheryl Clapprood announced that the State Police will partner with the City of Springfield’s Police Department by deploying 9 state troopers to the city to complement the police department’s patrols and operations while awaiting the National Guard. The troopers will be assigned 3 per shift. Mayor Sarno gave his Weekly COVID-19 Situational UpdateMayor Domenic J. Sarno and his Cabinet Heads continue to provide weekly updates to our residents and business community the City of Springfield's COVID-19 (coronavirus) situational updates.  Also in attendance was Baystate Health President and CEO Dr. Mark Keroack, and Mercy Medical Chief Medical Officer and Regional Chief, Addiction Medicine and Recovery Services Dr. Robert Roose City of Springfield Closes and Prohibits All Active Recreational ActivitiesThe City of Springfield' Parks Department, out of an abundance of caution, has closed and are prohibiting all active recreational activities which include but limited to: Golf Cources, Basketball (hoops are down), Tennis (courts are locked), Playgrounds (tapped off), and Farmers Markets. UPDATE (March 27, 2020):Baker-Polito Administration Announces Travel Guidelines To Support COVID-19 Response 
 Beginning March 27, all travelers arriving to Massachusetts are instructed to self-quarantine for 14 days. This guidance will be displayed as posters at service plazas along 1-90 eastbound, distributed as flyers at major transportation hubs and on posted on highway message boards. Visitors are instructed not to travel to Massachusetts if they are displaying symptoms. Health care workers, public health workers, public safety workers, transportation workers and designated essential workers are exempt from this requirement.www.mass.gov/news/baker-polito-administration-announces-travel-guidelines-and-new-health-care-resources-to
.
Springfield City Library Announced Services AvailableThe Springfield City Library has prepared a list of services they are offering to patrons while library buildings are closed to the public. Visit the Springfield City Library website for more information: 
https://www.springfieldlibrary.org/library/.
 
MassDOT-Registry of Motor Vehicles No-Walk-in PolicyEffective today, Friday, March 27th, the 
RMV
 will enforce a strict no walk-in policy at its eight open Service Centers. The only transactions processed at service centers will be those that require an in-person transaction, including Commercial Driving Licenses/Permits, some new registrations, out of state conversions and new Mass IDs. These customers will be required to make an online appointment reservation.https://www.mass.gov/info-details/rmv-covid-19-information
. https://www.mass.gov/orgs/massachusetts-registry-of-motor-vehicles?fbclid=IwAR2SJa4p-aOpJBYc3BhAltlRPKCJYt3sTdUyYyWcZRyzDFdh3qwYiPx-L_s
. City of Springfield Announces Contingency Plan for City’s Homeless PopulationMayor Domenic J. Sarno joined with members of his administration today to announce the City's Contingency Plan for the Springfield Homeless Population. Under the plan, there will be three tents available for individuals who are homeless to access on Worthington St. One tent is reserved for Testing, one for those with Symptoms to isolate, and the third for those in Quarantine. Mayor Sarno Signs on to Letter Asking the President and Federal Government to Coordinate Efforts for the Purchasing and Distribution of Medical EquipmentMayor Domenic J. Sarno today signed onto a letter from the Massachusetts Public Interest Research Group asking President Trump and the Federal Government to support our hospitals and healthcare facilities, and our cities, towns and states by using their federal power and authority to ramp up production of ventilators, PPE’s such as the N95 masks, testing kits and quicker turnaround for results, and other much-needed medical equipment.  Mayor Sarno stated, “This public health emergency situation has affected all of us across the nation.  The needs of our cities, states, hospitals and other healthcare facilities to proactively respond to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 has put stress upon our first responders and front line personnel.  It has pushed our resources to their limits.  Now more than ever, we need a coordinated effort on a national scale to meet the ever growing demands of the purchasing and distribution of medical equipment.” Massachusetts Announces State Income Tax Filing Deadline Being Extended to July 15 Governor Charlie Baker, Lt. Governor Karyn Polito, Senate President Karen Spilka and House Speaker Robert DeLeo today announced an agreement to extend the 2019 state individual income tax filing and payment deadline from April 15 to July 15 due to the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak. This income tax relief is automatic and taxpayers do not need to file any additional forms to qualify.
 Individuals with questions or concerns regarding taxes can contact the Massachusetts Department of Revenue at (617) 887-6367 or send a secure e-message through 
MassTaxConnect
. Mayor Sarno Petitions HUD for Additional CDBG Funds for Small Business AssistanceMayor Domenic J. Sarno and Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan today sent a letter to David Tille, Regional Administrator for HUD, seeking flexibility to redeploy potentially $500,000 additional CDBG funding for the “Prime the Pump” restaurant grant program and to assist small businesses with a direct grant initiative.  Previously the City had announced and released the “Prime the Pump” grant application, aimed at providing immediate financial relief for restaurants in Springfield that have transitioned to take out service models. The goal of the program is to help preserve jobs and assist restaurant businesses through this difficult time. Following up on this grant program, the city is seeking to utilize this additional CDBG funding from HUD for additional relief for our restaurants and other small businesses.Mayor Sarno states, “It’s critical that we do what we can to help support our small businesses during these difficult times.  I have directed my Chief Development Officer Tim Sheehan to follow up with HUD Regional Administrator David Tille on this matter and to prepare program guidelines for as early as next week so that we can get this much-needed assistance out to our small businesses.  I want to thank Congressman Richard Neal for his continued leadership and for reaching out to HUD Secretary Ben Carson in support of our letter.”     Mayor Sarno Announces Request for Massachusetts National Guard Mayor Sarno announced today, out of an abundance of caution and to continue to be proactive in addressing any potential needs that might arise due to the public health emergency situation of COVID-19.  That he has contacted the Office of Governor Baker and MEMA to request the Massachusetts National Guard to be deployed in the City of Springfield under the command of Police Commission Cheryl Clapprood.The Mayor has requested for 75 members of the Massachusetts National Guards to be deployed to help augment and supplement our local police and city operations.  “Though our dedicated men and women in blue are currently fully staffed and out on the front lines providing our residents and business community with the public safety operations they need.  The reality of the situation is this COVID-19 situation will eventually begin to take its toll on our first responders and front line personnel.”  Mayor Sarno said.  “From the daily morning reports Police Commissioner Clapprood has provided me, we are already down 20 officers and are awaiting their test results to determine if they can end their self-quarantine and return back to duty.  Commissioner Clapprood and I realize that this number can and will increase so we have to be proactive in our strategies to continue to keep our residents and business community safe and sound.” Mayor Sarno added, “I take this action as a precautionary measure as we continue to plan ahead and stay proactive during this COVID-19 situation.  The addition of these 75 members from the Massachusetts National Guard will help to augment and supplement our local police and other city operations as needed under the direct command of Commissioner Clapprood.”UPDATE (March 26, 2020):City Hall and All Municipal Buildings to Remain Closed to the Public until May 4, 2020Mayor Domenic J. Sarno has announced that out of an abundance of caution due to the current public health emergency and the evolving concerns related to the spread of COVID-19 (Coronavirus), the City of Springfield will extend the period in which City Hall and all municipal buildings will remain closed to the public until Monday, May 4, 2020.Governor Baker announced on Wednesday, March 25, 2020, that his administration was taking new actions in support of the state’s ongoing COVID-19 response to mitigate the spread of the virus, by extending the closure order of all schools across the Commonwealth until May 4, 2020. UPDATE (March 25, 2020):City of Springfield's COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Situational Update
 All city services continue to operate and serve the public’s needs. Imperative City services go beyond public safety and health care. Birth and death certificates still need to be issued, municipal lien certificates still need to be produced in order for house closings, payroll and benefits still need to be administered for City employees, IT services need to be available to assist employees working remotely.Those things considered, all city employees continue to provide essential city services under modified schedules, which include working remotely, alternating days working on site, or any combination, which has been determined as appropriate by the department head where services can continue with minimum interruptions. UPDATE (March 24, 2020):City of Springfield Office of Planning & Economic Development ResourcesThe City of Springfield’s Office of Planning & Economic Development will continue to update their dedicated COVID-19 Business Resources page with information, resources, and guidance for businesses 
here
. UPDATE (March 23, 2020):Governor Baker Issues Order for Non-Essential Services and Workplaces to Shutdown and Advisory on Non-essential TravelGovernor Baker issued an emergency order requiring all businesses and organizations that do not provide “COVID-19 Essential Services” to close their physical workplaces and facilities to workers, customers and the public as of Tuesday, March 24th at noon until Tuesday, April 7th at noon. These businesses are encouraged to continue operations remotely.The Order also prohibits the gatherings of more than 10 people.The Governor also issued an Advisory asking people to avoid any non-essential traveling and stay at home.Click here
 for the full list of categories of “COVID-19 Essential Services”Click here
 for a copy of the Emergency OrderClick here
 for a copy of the Guidance of Assemblages UPDATE (March 19, 2020):City of Springfield Issues New 
Public Health Emergency RecommendationsFollowing up on Governor Baker’s order to close all daycares and childcare centers across the Commonwealth, Mayor Domenic J. Sarno, upon the recommendation of Health Commissioner Helen Caulton-Harris, is strongly encouraging other venues to voluntarily adhere to and follow these Public Health Emergency recommendations by taking precautionary measures needed.Due to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) situation, the city is reminding everyone to adhere to the social distancing recommendations and asking that certain venues take the precautionary measures needed during these public health emergency times by voluntarily discontinuing services.  The city is asking that barber shops, salons, hairdressers, tattoo and piercing studios, massage parlors and spas, and nail salons all take the precautionary measures during these public health emergency times and voluntarily discontinue services as to adhere to the social distancing guidelines of remaining at least six (6) feet apart. We must continue to strike a balance between serious health concerns and the nature of doing business. The City of Springfield must do our very best to stay ahead of this growing concern to help reduce the spread of the coronavirus.  The City of Springfield will continue to monitor the COVID-19 (Novel Coronavirus) situation.  The city is committed to keeping our residents and business community informed about the latest developments.  To stay up-to-date on all the latest information we encourage everyone to visit the City’s website at 
www.springfield-ma.gov
.The City of Springfield has a dedicated Coronavirus (COVID-19) Update webpage that is continually updated with new information and developments from our health experts, the city, the state, federal government and other important agencies and organizations.  UPDATE (March 18, 2020): City of Springfield's Planning and Economic Development Office - Restaurant Grant ProgramThe City of Springfield has launched a grant program aimed to assist our local restaurants during these challenging times by making available, funds to help restaurant businesses that seek to reorganize their service delivery operations to meet the public health restrictions and retain their existing employees to degree possible.  Qualifying restaurants can apply for up to $15,000 to help with these expenses. For more information and details on how to apply, please contact the city’s Chief Development Officer Timothy Sheehan at (413) 787-6024 or 
tsheehan@springfieldcityhall.com
.  Western Mass Economic Development Council
 has provided a dedicated site listing available resources from both the state and community partners.https://www.westernmassedc.com/about-us/covid-19-resources/ U.S. Small Business Administration Disaster Assistance to Small BusinessesTheU.S. Small Business Administration is offeringlow-interestfederal disaster loans for working capital for small businesses suffering substantial economic injury as a result of the Coronavirus (COVID-19).  Hampden County has been identified as an eligible region.   Eligibility for Economic Injury Disaster Loans is based on the financial impact of the Coronavirus (COVID-19). The interest rate is 3.75 percent for small businesses. The interest rate for private non-profit organizations is 2.75 percent. SBA offers loans with long-term repayments in order to keep payments affordable, up to a maximum of 30 years and are available to entities without the financial ability to offset the adverse impact without hardship.Applicants may apply online, receive additional disaster assistance information and download applications at 
https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela
. Applicants may also call SBA’s Customer Service Center at (800) 659-2955 or email 
disastercustomerservice@sba.gov
 for more information on SBA disaster assistance. Individuals who are deaf or hard‑of‑hearing may call (800) 877-8339. Completed applications should be mailed to U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX  76155.The deadline to apply for an Economic Injury Disaster Loan is 
Dec. 16, 2020
.For more information about Coronavirus, please visit: 
Coronavirus.gov
.For more information about available SBA resources and services, please visit: 
SBA.gov/coronavirus
. UPDATE (March 17, 2020):
 Governor Baker Announces Small Business Recovery Loan FundThe Baker-Polito Administration announced economic support for small businesses with a $10 million loan fund to provide financial relief to those that have been affected by COVID-19.The $10 million Small Business Recovery Loan Fund will provide emergency capital up to $75,000 to Massachusetts-based businesses impacted by COVID-19 with under 50 full- and part-time employees, including nonprofits. Loans are immediately available to eligible businesses with no payments due for the first 6 months. 
Massachusetts Growth Capital Corporation
 (MGCC) has capitalized the fund and will administer it.How to Apply:Please complete the application found on MGCC’s website, 
EmpoweringSmallBusiness.org
. Completed applications can be sent via email to 
mgcc@massgcc.com
 with the subject line “2020 Small Business Recovery Loan Fund”.MGCC can be reached by email: 
mgcc@massgcc.comLoan Fund Details: UPDATE (March 16, 2020):  
City Hall and All Municipal Buildings to Close to PublicDue to the evolving concerns related to the spread of COVID-19 – Coronavirus and out of an abundance of caution, the City of Springfield has announced that it will be closing City Hall and all other municipal buildings to the public beginning Tuesday, March 17, 2020 until April 5, 2020. Governor Baker announced Sunday evening, March 15, 2020, Emergency Actions to help address the potential spread of COVID-19.  As such, the City of Springfield will adhere to these actions by strictly following the public health recommendations of social distancing guidelines and limiting public gatherings to 25 people or less. At this time, all City of Springfield employees will continue to report to work as directed and under the discretion of their managers.  Departments will remain open in a modified aspect.The City of Springfield will continue to maintain all essential functions and services.  Residents are encouraged to conduct their city related business remotely when possible by utilizing our 311 Call Center at (413) 736-3111 and our website at 
www.springfield-ma.gov
.  Individuals encountering urgent, time-sensitive situations requiring the attention of City of Springfield staff are advised to contact the appropriate department to determine if an accommodation can be made. UPDATE (March 13, 2020): 
City of Springfield Declares State of EmergencyMayor Domenic J. Sarno today declared a state of emergency in the City of Springfield to mitigate any potential spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19).  As a result the following actions have been taken by the city:   UPDATE (March 11, 2020):  
Springfield Public Schools update and FAQ's  https://www.springfieldpublicschools.com/news/News/coronavirus_update  UPDATE (March 10, 2020):  
Baystate Health has established a dedicated web page to provide accurate and timely information and recommendations regarding COVID-19baystatehealth.org/covid19  UPDATE (March 4, 2020): 
 Per the Massachusetts Department of Public Health - Revised CDC guidance regarding returning travelers from Level 2 and 3 countriesThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announced 
revised guidance regarding travelers to Level 2 and 3 countries
 returning to the US and recommended procedures for reducing the risk of transmission of the virus associated with COVID-19). The CDC link is also here: 
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers
 (click on the travel notice beside each country).Change in guidance for returnees from Level 2 and 3 countries:Reminder of guidance already in place:Foreign nationals may not travel from China or Iran to the United States. US residents returning from these countries will continue to be identified for state health departments by DGMQ and DPH will continue to request local health department assistance in monitoring these returnees and supporting them to self-quarantine for 14 days.CDC recommends everyone avoid all non-essential travel to Level 3 countries (currently China, Iran, Italy, and South Korea) and that older individuals and those with chronic health conditions avoid non-essential travel to Level 2 countries (currently Japan).Travelers with questions should call the 24/7 Epi Line: 617-983-6800.  DPH will be conducting weekly conference calls with local boards of health starting next week.  Call information will be forthcoming. The Department will share further guidance as it becomes available. The City of Springfield encourages you to check out the following information from the State of Massachusetts and the CDC: The new MDPH website provides relevant up-to-date information on the state of the novel coronavirus for all residents: 
mass.gov/2019coronavirus
.Additional details and guidance regarding the novel coronavirus, is available from the CDC: 
2019 Novel Coronavirus
.Fact Sheets from the Massachusetts Department of Public Health can be found 
here
. Springfield Department of Health and Human Services  is working closely with the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH) and the Centers for Disease Control and PreventionMovie theaters and outdoor performance venues;Museums, cultural and historical sites; Fitness centers and health clubs;Certain indoor recreational activities with low potential for contact;Professional sports teams, under the authority of league-wide rules, may hold games without spectatorsIndoor table service at restaurants;Close contact personal services, with restrictions;Retail dressing rooms, by appointment only;Offices, at 50 percent capacityGuidance for RestaurantsGuidance for Close-Contact Personal ServicesGuidance for Other IndustriesGuidance for Sectors Not Otherwise Addressed
 Phase 1 will be “Start:” limited industries resume operations with severe restrictionsPhase 2 will be “Cautious:” additional industries resume operations with restrictions and capacity limitsPhase 3 will be “Vigilant:” additional industries resume operations with guidancePhase 4 will be the “New Normal:” development of vaccine and/or therapy enables resumption of new normalFY2020_personal_exemption_chart.pdfConstruct a facility for testing, diagnosis, or treatment.          Rehabilitate a community facility to establish an infectious disease treatment clinic.Acquire and rehabilitate, or construct, a group living facility that may be used to centralize patients undergoing treatment.Rehabilitate a commercial building or closed school building to establish an infectious disease treatment clinic, e.g., by replacing the HVAC system.Acquire, and quickly rehabilitate (if necessary) a motel or hotel building to expand capacity of hospitals to accommodate isolation of patients during recovery.Make interim improvements to private properties to enable an individual patient to remain quarantined on a temporary basis.Provide grants or loans to support new businesses or business expansion to create jobs and manufacture medical supplies necessary to respond to infectious disease.Avoid job loss caused by business closures related to social distancing by providing short-term working capital assistance to small businesses to enable retention of jobs held by low- and moderate-income persons.Provide technical assistance, grants, loans, and other financial assistance to establish, stabilize, and expand microenterprises that provide medical, food delivery, cleaning, and other services to support home health and quarantine.Carry out job training to expand the pool of health care workers and technicians that are available to treat disease within a community.Provide testing, diagnosis or other services at a fixed or mobile location.Increase the capacity and availability of targeted health services for infectious disease response within existing health facilities.Provide equipment, supplies, and materials necessary to carry-out a public service.Deliver meals on wheels to quarantined individuals or individuals that need to maintain social distancing due to medical vulnerabilities.Who Qualifies: Open to Massachusetts-based businesses impacted by COVID-19 with under 50 full- and part-time employees, including nonprofits (negative impact must be verifiable).Terms and Conditions: This fund is being offered with no payments due for the first 6 months, then 30-months of principal and interest payments and no prepayment penalties.Businesses can apply for loans up to $75,000.Springfield Public Schools are temporarily closedSpringfield Senior Centers are temporarily closedSpringfield Public Libraries are temporarily closedLarge assemblies over 250 people or more are temporarliy canceledReturning travelers from Level 3 countries other than China and Iran (currently Italy and South Korea) are asked to self-quarantine (“stay home") for 14 days since the date of entry to the United States and self-monitor for symptoms consistent with COVID-19.  CDC’s Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ) will 
NOT
 be providing traveler information on returnees from these countries to states.  DPH will 
NOT
 be asking local health departments to educate these travelers on self-quarantine nor actively monitor these individuals during their 14-day quarantine period.Returning travelers from Level 2 countries (currently Japan) are asked to limit contact with others and self-monitor for symptoms.  DGMQ will 
NOT
 be providing traveler information on returnees from level 2 countries to states.  DPH will 
NOT
 be asking local health departments to educate these travelers on self-monitoring.Health Alert: Travelers from Wuhan, ChinaMA Department of Public Health Memo- CoronavirusMDPH Coronavirus webpage MDPH Fact Sheets for Patients and Translations CDC Coronavirus Landing Page
CDC Guidance for Healthcare Providers
CDC Flowchart for Patient EvaluationCDC Guidance for Healthcare ProvidersCDC Flowchart for Patient EvaluationMassachusetts League of Community Health Centers Webpage on COVID-19


Scraping from https://www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=2991


Mayor Domenic J. Sarno has provided a resource guide with helpful information, advisories, and guidance for our residents and business community during this pubic health emergency.Please click on the links below to view the guide.  The resource guide is available in English and Spanish.La_Ciudad_de_Springfield__Avisos__Recomendaciones_y_Guía_de_Recursos_Sobre_el_Coronavirus__COVID-19_City_of_Springfield_Coronavirus__COVID-19__Advisories__Recommendations___Resource_Guide


Scraping from https://www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=2992


Mayor Domenic J. Sarno's meets every morning with his Cabinet Heads to provide daily updates on the COVID-19 situation.Mayor Sarno, in the best interests of our residents and business community, continues his daily morning meetings with his cabinet heads as they work 24/7 to facilitate and coordinate with all of our local, state, federal, and public and private partners in response to the COVID-19 situation.Click on the dates below for the daily situational updates. July 14, 2020July 13, 2020July 10, 2020July 9, 2020July 8, 2020July 7, 2020July 6, 2020July 2, 2020July 1, 2020June 30, 2020June 29, 2020June 26, 2020June 25, 2020June 24, 2020June 23, 2020June 22, 2020June 19, 2020June 18, 2020June 17, 2020June 16, 2020June 15, 2020June 12, 2020June 11, 2020June 10, 2020June 9, 2020June 8, 2020June 5, 2020June 4, 2020June 3, 2020June 2, 2020June 1, 2020May 29, 2020May 28, 2020May 27, 2020May 26, 2020May 22, 2020May 21, 2020May 20, 2020May 19, 2020May 18, 2020May 15, 2020May 14, 2020May 13, 2020May 12, 2020May 11, 2020May 8, 2020May 7, 2020May 6, 2020May 5, 2020M
ay 4, 2020May 1, 2020April 30, 2020April 29, 2020April 28, 2020April 27, 2020April 24, 2020April 23, 2020April 22, 2020April 21, 2020April 20, 2020April 17, 2020April 16, 2020April 15, 2020 April 14, 2020April 13, 2020April 10, 2020April 9, 2020April 8, 2020April 7, 2020April 6, 2020April 3, 2020April 2, 2020April 1, 2020March 31, 2020March 30, 2020March 27, 2020March 26, 2020March 25, 2020


Scraping from https://www.springfield-ma.gov/cos/index.php?id=2993


The city's Department of Health and Human Services has activated its 24/7 hotline. Residents can call 
(413) 750-3250
 for information and updates on the latest developments related to COVID-19 (Coronavirus). The City of Springfield's Health and Human Services Department is currently monitoring the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) situation and will provide further updates as new developments and relevant information becomes available. Click on the headlines below for more information. What is COVID-19 (Coronavirus) and FAQ'sLo que necesita saber sobre la enfermedad del coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19)The Coronavirus disease is a respiratory illness that can spread from person to person.  The virus that causes COVID-19 is a noel coronavirus that was frst identified during an investigation into an outbreak in Wuhan, China.   Prevention Detenga la Propagación de GérmenesMany of the things you do to help prevent colds and the flu can help protect you against other respiratory viruses, including COVID-19:There are currently no vaccines available to protect against this novel coronavirus infection. Social DistancingAyude a Prevenir el COVID-19 con el Distanciamiento SocialYou can help prevent COVID-19 with social distancing:Wash your hands often
 with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.Avoid touching
 your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean things that are frequently touched
 (like doorknobs and countertops) with household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover your mouth
 when you cough or sneeze. Use a tissue or your inner elbow, not your hands.Stay home if you are sick
 and avoid close contact with others.Call/Facetime/online chat with friends and familyStay home as much as you canIf you must go out: 	
Don’t gather in groups
Stay 6 feet away from others
Don’t shake hands or hugDon’t gather in groupsStay 6 feet away from othersDon’t shake hands or hugAnd please continue to wash your hands frequently