


Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/cities-and-agencies#expand





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19



COVID-19 

Español - Spanish Русский – Russian 中文 – Chinese 한국어 – Korean Tiếng Việt – Vietnamese ASL

The latest
State pauses reopening process—Clark County remains in Phase 2
Face coverings to be required 
Secretary of Health Wiesman issues a health order requiring face coverings in public places for everyone 5+ year or older. More on the Washington Department of Health website.

Safe Start guidance for workplace reopening: Phase 2
Clark County Public Health response
Washington State Department of Health response
Washington State response
Slow the spread
The virus that causes COVID-19 passes easily from person to person. Learn the signs and do your part to slow the spread.
How to protect yourselfWhat are the symptoms of COVID-19?Public Connections: Washington Department of Health blog
Connect with us

 
Frequently Asked Questions

 



 
What is COVID-19?  
 Novel coronavirus, or COVID-19, is a new respiratory disease first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China. COVID-19 is part of a larger family of coronaviruses, some of which are normally circulating in the community and can cause illnesses like the common cold.
  

 
How does coronavirus spread?  
 We are still learning about COVID-19, including how it spreads. Current understanding about how COVID-19 spreads is largely based on what is known about similar coronaviruses.
Coronaviruses most commonly spread from an infected person to others through:
The air by coughing and sneezing
Close personal contact, such as touching or shaking hands
Touching an object or surface with the virus on it, then touching your mouth, nose or eyes before washing your hands
Rarely, fecal contamination with coronavirus present
  

 
What are the symptoms of coronavirus?  
 Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. People with these symptoms or combinations of symptoms may have COVID-19:
cough
shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
Or at least two of these symptoms:
fever
chills
repeated shaking with chills
muscle pain
headache
sore throat
new loss of taste or smell
 
If you develop emergency warning signs for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately. Emergency warning signs include:
trouble breathing
persistent pain or pressure in the chest
new confusion or inability to arouse
bluish lips or face
This list is not all inclusive. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.
  

 
What should I do if I have COVID-19 symptoms?  
 Anyone who develops symptoms of COVID-19 should contact their health care provider about testing as soon as possible. Early testing is critical to slowing the spread of COVID-19 in Clark County.
If you develop emergency warning signs for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately. Emergency warning signs include:
trouble breathing
persistent pain or pressure in the chest
new confusion or inability to arouse
bluish lips or face
This list is not all inclusive. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.
Here is additional guidance for people who have or think they have COVID-19:
What to do if you have confirmed or suspected COVID-19
What to do if you were potentially exposed to someone with COVID-19
What to do if you have symptoms of COVID-19 and have not been around anyone diagnosed with COVID-19
  

 
How can people protect themselves from coronavirus?  
 Clark County Public Health is urging everyone to practice physical distancing:
Give space. Stay about 6 feet away from other people.
Stay home. Avoid unnecessary trips to public locations.
Don't congregate. Avoid indoor and outdoor gatherings with other people.
There are steps people should take to reduce their risk of getting and spreading any viral respiratory infections. These include:
Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60 percent alcohol.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth with unwashed hands.
Stay home and away from others when sick.
Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze, then throw the tissue in the trash and wash your hands.
Clean and disinfect objects and surfaces that are frequently touched.
  

 
What is the treatment for COVID-19?  
 There is no specific treatment for COVID-19. People with COVID-19 can receive supportive care from hospitals to help relieve symptoms.
  

 
Is it safe to travel?  
 People should stay home as much as possible and avoid unnecessary trips to public locations. When out in public, practice social distancing:
stay about 6 feet away from other people
don't congregate with other people
Visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for recommendations about traveling within the U.S. and internationally.
  

 
Should I wear a mask when I go out in public?  
 Staying home except for essential trips and ensuring you remain at least 6 feet away from others when in public are the best ways to protect yourself from COVID-19. But non-medical masks may be used to supplement those efforts.
Here are two things to consider before deciding whether to wear a mask:
Medical masks should be reserved for health care workers. There has been a shortage of medical masks; it’s important health care workers have the equipment they need to safely do their jobs.
Homemade fabric masks, and other non-medical masks, are not a replacement for staying home and limiting contact with others. Masks also do not replace the need to frequently wash hands with soap and water, avoid touching your face with unwashed hands and stay away from people who are sick. These remain the best ways to stay healthy and prevent the spread of COVID-19.
When a person who is already infected with the virus (even if they don’t have symptoms) wears a fabric mask, it may help prevent the spread of infection to others. The mask can block droplets from spreading when the person coughs, sneezes or, to a lesser degree, speaks.
It’s unknown how much protection homemade fabric masks provide to the person wearing the mask. The amount of protection may depend on the quality of the mask and how well it fits. This is why fabric masks should not be considered reliable protection, but they may provide some benefit.
To be effective, masks should be worn consistently. Be sure to wash hands before putting on a fabric mask and after taking it off, and be careful not to touch your face with unwashed hands if adjusting the mask. Fabric masks should be changed when moist and washed after use. Masks that are worn may be contaminated.
  

 
What is the risk to pregnant women of getting COVID-19?  
 It's currently unknown if pregnant women have a greater chance of getting sick from COVID-19 than the general public or whether they are more likely to have serious illness as a result.
Pregnant women experience changes in their bodies that may increase their risk of some infections. With viruses from the same family as COVID-19, and other viral respiratory infections, such as influenza, women have had a higher risk of developing severe illness. 
For more information about COVID-19 and pregnancy and breastfeeding, visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website.
  

 
What should I do now that COVID-19 is spreading in Clark County?  
 Stay informed about COVID-19 activity in Clark County on Public Health's novel coronavirus webpage and activity in the state through the Washington State Department of Health website. 
Stay home as much as possible. Avoid unnecessary trips to public locations.
When you do need to make trips, stay about 6 feet away from others.
Do not congregate (indoors or outdoors) with people who do not live in your house.
Avoid contact with people who are sick.
Wash your hands often with soap and water.
Cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue.
Clean frequently touched surfaces with soap and water.
Work with your employer to telecommute, if possible.
If you are sick, stay home. When seeking medical care, wear a face mask and keep your distance from others. If someone in your house is sick, stay home to avoid unknowingly spreading the virus to others.
Set up a separate room for sick household members. Clean the room regularly and make sure they have clean disposable face masks to use. 
Check in with family and friends who live alone — especially those with chronic diseases. If you live alone, ask your friends and family to check in with you if you become sick. 
  

 
How can I help reduce stigma associated with COVID-19?  
 While COVID-19 originated in Wuhan, China, the disease is not specific to any ethnic group or national origin. The risk of infection is based on exposure to disease, such as through travel to an area where the disease is occurring, and not on race, ethnicity or where someone was born. Viruses do not discriminate based on race, ethnicity, gender or birthplace.
You can help to reduce stigma and discrimination associated with a disease outbreak by doing the following:
Speak up if you hear, see or read stigmatizing or harassing comments or misinformation.
Show compassion and support for individuals and communities most closely impacted and anyone who might be sick.
Do not make assumptions about someone’s health status based on their ethnicity, race or national origin.
Share accurate information. Rely on trusted sources of information about the causes of outbreaks from reputable sources, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Washington State Department of Health.
Here are additional resources with tips for reducing stigma:
Washington State Department of Health
Unicef
  

 
How can I donate?  
 Clark Regional Emergency Services Agency needs donations of medical gloves, gowns, surgical and N95 masks in unopened boxes. To make a donation send an email to COVIDsupplies@cresa911.org.
In your email, provide contact information and the items and amounts you can provide. We will contact you to schedule a time to deliver your donation.
  

 
 Should I report non-compliance of social distancing?  
 Please do not call 311 or 911 to report non-compliance of the Governor’s Stay Home Stay Healthy order. The same dispatch center handles both 311 and 911 calls and can quickly get overloaded with calls for non-safety issues. You can read the Sheriff’s Office comments on the Governor’s order on their Facebook page.
Report businesses suspected of violating the governor's order here.
 
 
 
  




A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/county-online-services



County online services  

Many county services are available online only. Please confirm hours of operation and services currently available for each department.
Animal Protection and Control
Auto Licensing
Clark County licensing subagents remain open for service
Board of Equalization
BOE@clark.wa.gov  / 546.397.2337
Building
564.397.4912
Children's Justice Center
open for emergency forensic appointments only
Community Development reception 
commdev@clark.wa.gov / 564.397.2375
Development Engineering
cnty.pwdevelopmentengineeringge@clark.wa.gov
District Court
Elections
elections@clark.wa.gov / 564.397.2345
Engineering
564.397.5104
Environmental Public Health online permitting
564.397.8000
Food worker testing
564.397.8000
GIS Map Store
564.397.4652
Human Resources
Joint Lobby Services
Marriage license applications, recording documents, property tax payments, senior tax deferral applications
Land Records
564.397.4641
Land Use
564.397.4489 / planningtech@clark.wa.gov
Law Library
Marriage license and recording
recording@clark.wa.gov / 564.397.2208
Medical Examiner's Office
Permit Services
564.397.4078 / cnty.permitservices@clark.wa.gov
Pet Licensing
564.397.5852
Property tax payments
treasoff@clark.wa.gov / 564.397.2252
Prosecuting Attorney's Office
prosecutor@clark.wa.gov / 564.397.2261
Public Works reception 
564.397.4094
Public Works Survey Department
surveyreview@clark.wa.gov / 564.397.4228 
Senior tax exemption and deferral
assessor@clark.wa.gov / 564.397.2391
Superior Court
Vital Records / birth and death certificates
564.397.8000
 





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/safe-start-phase-2



Safe Start Phase 2  
Safe Start: A phased approach to reopening
Businesses and activities will re-open in phases with adequate social distancing measures & health standards in place. Businesses may also need to meet additional requirements developed specifically for their industry. 
Counties may apply for a variance to advance to the next phase. The Washington State Department of Health has outlined several metrics required for variance approval.
Clark County has been approved to enter Phase 2 of Safe Start Reopening Plan.





Safe Start: Phase 2
Required safety practices and guidance for reopening in Phase 2:
Construction
Dine-in restaurants and taverns
​Hospitality signage/infographic
Ready to serve checklist

Fitness
Higher education
In-store retail
Manufacturing
Outdoor Recreation Includes staffed outdoor tennis facilities; guided ATV, paddle sports, and horseback riding; guided fishing; go-cart tracks, ORV/motorcross facilities, participant-only motorsports; gondolas; and zoos.
Personal services  Personal service providers covered in these operational guidelines including cosmetologists, hairstylists, barbers, estheticians, manicurists, nail salon workers, electrologists, makeup artists, tattoo artists, cosmetology schools and esthetics schools.
Pet grooming
Professional photography
Professional services
Fitness and training
Real Estate
Religious and faith-based organizations
Additional resources
Safe Start infographic horizontal
Safe Start infographic vertical
 


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/safe-start-phase-1



Safe Start Phase 1 
Clark County entered Safe Start Reopening Plan Phase 2 on June 5, 2020
Emerging from the pandemic: Washington's phased approach
Safe Start allows for modifications of business closures and physical distancing measures while minimizing the health impacts of COVID-19.
What can be open in Phase 1
while following industry-specific guidelines
All essential businesses
In-progress residential construction
State parks
Vehicle and vessel sales
Car washes
Landscaping
Pet walkers
Drive-in religious services
Curb-side retail sales
Reopening guidance for businesses and workers
Under the Safe Start plan, businesses and activities will re-open in phases with adequate physical distancing measures and health standards in place. Businesses may also need to meet additional requirements developed specifically for their industry. Click here for more information.
Additional resources
Inslee releases additional Safe Start Phase 1 guidance





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/stay-home-stay-healthy-proclamation



Stay home, stay healthy proclamation 
The Stay Home, Stay Health proclamation expired June 1, 2020.
Safe Start: A phased approach to reopening
Businesses and activities will re-open in phases with adequate social distancing measures & health standards in place. Businesses may also need to meet additional requirements developed specifically for their industry. 
Counties may apply for a variance to advance to the next phase. The Washington State Department of Health has outlined several metrics required for variance approval.

Stay Home, Stay Healthy Proclamation
All people in Washington State shall immediately cease leaving their home or place of residence except: (1) to conduct or participate in essential activities, and/or (2) for employment in essential business services.
Essential activities include:
Obtaining necessary supplies and services including:
Groceries, food and supplies for household consumption and use
Supplies and equipment needed to work from home
Products necessary to maintain safety, sanitation and essential maintenance of home or residence
Activities essential for the health and safety of family, household members and pets
Caring for a family member, friend or pet in another household
Transporting a family member, friend or pet for essential health and safety activities and to obtain necessary supplies and services.
Outdoor exercise activities such as walking, jogging, hiking or biking ONLY if social distancing practices are used (6 feet of space)
Employment in essential business services. To clarify status, or to petition to be added to this list, please fill out this form.
If you have concerns or want to report a business that is not following the proclamation, please fill out this form.
This does not apply to individuals whose homes are unsafe or become unsafe, such as victims of domestic violence
This does not apply to individuals experiencing homelessness, who are urged to obtain shelter. 
Banned all gatherings for social, spiritual and recreational purposes of any number including, but not limited to:
Festivals
Sporting events
Faith-based events
Weddings
Funerals
Does not apply to activities solely including people who are part of a single household.
Non-essential businesses are to cease operations other than basic minimum operations.
Essential businesses must implement social distancing and sanitation measures established by the US Department of Labor and the Washington Department of Health. Effective midnight on March 25 until midnight on April 8, unless extended.
This may include workers in the following sectors:
Healthcare and public health staff
Law enforcement, public safety and first responders
Public works workers who support the operations, inspection and maintenance of critical or strategic infrastructure (dams, locks, levees, bridges, water and sewer, traffic signals).
Workers who provide services necessary for the essential operation of residences (plumbers, electricians, exterminators, solid and hazardous waste)
Food and agriculture, including groceries, farm workers and others that support the food system supply chain
Energy sector workers essential for the safe delivery and infrastructure maintenance of electricity, petroleum, natural and propane gas
Water and wastewater workers needed to operate and maintain critical infrastructure
Transportation and logistics workers
Communications and information technology workers
Childcare providers
Critical manufacturing
Hazardous materials
Financial services
Chemical
Defense
Does not apply to businesses working from home and who do not engage in in-person contact with clients
Allowed
Hospitals and health care    
Grocery stores    
Banks    
Pharmacies    
Take-out/delivery from restaurants and bars    
Pet stores   
Gas stations    
Certain retail stores    
Outdoor exercise activities such as walking, jogging, hiking or biking ONLY if social distancing practices are used (6 feet of space)
Child care facilities
Not Allowed
Social gatherings (social, spiritual or recreational) with people from outside of your household
Dine-in restaurants and bars
Nightclubs and concerts   
Shopping at outdoor or indoor malls and retail complexes
Fitness: Gyms, sports and fitness centers, health clubs, and exercise studios, dance and yoga studios
Grooming: Hair salons, barbershops, nail salons, massage parlors, non-medical wellness spas, cosmetic stores, tattoo parlors    
Entertainment: Theaters, amusement parks, arcades, bowling alleys, music concerts, sporting events, museums, skating rinks
Outdoors: State campgrounds, festivals
 





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/cares-act



The CARES Act 
The CARES Act
The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was signed into law on March 27, 2020. Over $2 trillion in economic relief provides economic assistance for American workers, families, and small businesses, and helps to preserves job for American industries.
Under the CARES Act, unemployment benefits will be expanded in the following ways:
Pandemic Unemployment Assistance - expands benefits to those directly impacted by COVID-19 who are not otherwise eligible for Unemployment Insurance in Washington State. This will be available until December 26, 2020 and is retroactive to February 2, 2020.
Pandemic Unemployment Compensation - increases the weekly benefit amount by $600 for unemployment assistance recipients (including those already on Unemployment Insurance or participating in SharedWork). It runs until July 25, 2020 and retroactive to March 29, 2020.
Pandemic Emergency Compensation - adds 13 additional weeks of benefits on top of the standard 26 weeks (if needed). It runs until December 26, 2020 and is retroactive to March 29, 2020.
Coronavirus tax relief and government stimulus  
Information on Economic Impact Payments
For Individuals & Families
For Businesses & Tax-Exempt Entities
Health Plans & Retirement Plans  
Unemployment Insurance
Unemployment Insurance questions answered
Sign up to receive updates directly from the Washington State Employment Security Department (ESD) on applying for benefits.
Additional resources
US Senate Committee Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Guide to the Cares Act
Assistance for American workers and families 
Assistance for small business
Preserving jobs for American industry
Assistance for state and local governments 
 

 





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/physical-distancing



Physical distancing 
Physical distancing? Here’s what you need to know.
As we remain in Safe Start Phase 2, it is important that we maintain physical distancing protocols. That means we need to continue to keep a minimum 6 foot distance from others and wear a face covering when we are in public. 
Face covering requirement
The Washington State Department of Health requires you to wear a cloth face covering in public when you cannot stay six feet away from others. You must wear a face covering in indoor public settings like the grocery store, pharmacy, hardware store, health clinic, and other locations. You should also wear a face covering outside if you cannot keep six feet away from other people at all times.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also recommends wearing cloth face coverings. Face coverings can help prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Staying home except for essential trips and ensuring you remain at least 6 feet away from others when in public are the best ways to protect yourself from COVID-19. But non-medical masks may be used to supplement those efforts.
Here are two things to consider before deciding whether to wear a mask:
Medical masks should be reserved for health care workers. There has been a shortage of medical masks; it’s important health care workers have the equipment they need to safely do their jobs.
Homemade fabric masks, and other non-medical masks, are not a replacement for staying home and limiting contact with others. Masks also do not replace the need to frequently wash hands with soap and water, avoid touching your face with unwashed hands and stay away from people who are sick. These remain the best ways to stay healthy and prevent the spread of COVID-19.
When a person who is already infected with the virus (even if they don’t have symptoms) wears a fabric mask, it may help prevent the spread of infection to others. The mask can block droplets from spreading when the person coughs, sneezes or, to a lesser degree, speaks.
It’s unknown how much protection homemade fabric masks provide to the person wearing the mask. The amount of protection may depend on the quality of the mask and how well it fits. This is why fabric masks should not be considered reliable protection, but they may provide some benefit.
To be effective, masks should be worn consistently. Be sure to wash hands before putting on a fabric mask and after taking it off, and be careful not to touch your face with unwashed hands if adjusting the mask. Fabric masks should be changed when moist and washed after use. Masks that are worn may be contaminated.
Learn how to make a no-sew fabric mask in this video with Surgeon General Dr. Jerome Adams.
Additional resources for making and wearing face coverings are available here.
Face covering requirement for employees
Beginning June 8, most employees in Washington will be required to wear a cloth facial covering or face mask, except when working alone in an office, vehicle, or at a job site. Employers must provide cloth facial coverings to employees, unless their exposure dictates a higher level of protection.
Refer to the state Department of Labor & Industries’ Coronavirus Facial Covering and Mask Requirements or their Which Mask for Which Task guide for more information.
Can I go to a restaurant, food court or bar?
Restaurants in Clark County are allowed to open for dine-in services at 50% capacity.  There is currently no evidence that COVID-19 has spread through food or food packaging. Many businesses continue to offer take-out, drive-through and food delivery.
Check here for more information about dining out.
If you order takeout or delivery, here are some tips:
Place orders online or by phone, if possible, rather than going into the restaurant.
Ask if the restaurant offers curbside pick-up, so you don’t have to enter the restaurant to get your food.
If placing an order in-person or picking up food to go, make sure you keep at least 6 feet between yourself and others in the food establishment. Leave as soon as you receive your order; don’t congregate.
If your food is delivered, try to have as little contact with the delivery person as possible. Many businesses are now required to offer contactless delivery.
Wash your hands with soap and water after handling takeout containers.
Don’t eat from or store leftovers in the takeout containers. Transfer your food into clean containers, and wash your hands with soap and water before eating.
Guidelines for food establishments 
Adults 60 and over
People 60 and over and those with serious underlying health problems — like lung or heart diseases or a weakened immune system — should stay home and away from other people because these groups are most vulnerable to developing more serious complications from COVID-19.
Washington State Department of Social Services is asking visitors to stay away from nursing homes and retirement or long-term care facilities unless they provide critical assistance. Think about dropping off a care package or scheduling regular phone calls to stay in contact.
Do try to stay in touch regularly so that older relatives don't feel isolated. Now is a good time to teach your parents how to use video calling if they don't know already or get into the habit of using FaceTime.
I need to go to the grocery store. How do I do that in a way that's safest for me and others?
Try going to the grocery store infrequently and during off-peak hours, when the store is less likely to be crowded. Many establishments are limiting the number of people in the store at any given time for social distancing. Send only one person from your household to the store, if possible, to reduce the number of people in public.
Wipe down the handles on the shopping cart or basket with wipes or hand sanitizer if available.
Be careful not to touch your face while at the store. Wash your hands before and after going to the grocery store. Wear a face covering and do your best to maintain a distance of at least 6 feet from others.
After you unpack the food at home, wash your hands again. If you're in a high-risk group—adults over 60 or those with compromised immune systems —ask someone to shop for you or have groceries delivered.
What about allowing your children to play outside with other kids or going to the park?
Children can play outside, and may play with five or less kids who do not live in their home per week.
Is it ok to have close friends over to visit?
Governor Inslee’s Safe Start, Phase 2 plan allows for small gatherings of no more than five people outside the household per week. 
Can I travel?
Limited non-essential travel is allowed. The goal of social distancing is to minimize contact with others outside your immediate household to slow the spread of the virus.
I scheduled a doctor's appointment months ago. Should I still go?
Nonessential visits to a doctor or dentist may be scheduled. Call your provider for more detailed information.





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/families-first-coronavirus-response-act-ffcra



Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA)  
The Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) requires certain employers to provide employees with paid sick leave or expanded family and medical leave for specified reasons related to COVID-19 starting on April 1, 2020.
The act gives all American businesses with fewer than 500 employees funds to provide employees with paid leave, either for the employee's own health needs or to care for family members.
The Act provides that employees of covered employers are eligible for:
Two weeks (up to 80 hours) of paid sick leave at the employee's regular rate of pay where the employee is unable to work because the employee is quarantined (pursuant to Federal, State, or local government order or advice of a health care provider), and/or experiencing COVID-19 symptoms and seeking a medical diagnosis; or
Two weeks (up to 80 hours) of paid sick leave at two-thirds the employee's regular rate of pay because the employee is unable to work because of a bona fide need to care for an individual subject to quarantine (pursuant to Federal, State, or local government order or advice of a health care provider), or to care for a child (under 18 years of age) whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to COVID-19, and/or the employee is experiencing a substantially similar condition as specified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretaries of the Treasury and Labor; and
Up to an additional 10 weeks of paid expanded family and medical leave at two-thirds the employee's regular rate of pay where an employee, who has been employed for at least 30 calendar days, is unable to work due to a bona fide need for leave to care for a child whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to COVID-19.





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/events-entertainment-eating-out-and-retail



Events, entertainment, eating out and retail 
Events, entertainment, eating out and retail
Many businesses and activities may begin reopening following the state's Safe Start phased plan with adequate social distancing measures and health standards in place. Businesses must also meet additional requirements developed specifically for their industry.
While businesses may be allowed to reopen, some may choose not to reopen immediately. Customers should call or visit business website before visiting.
Restaurants and Taverns
Food establishments can reopen onsite dining if they meet the Governor's Phase 2 Dine-in Requirements. Each good establishment must have a written procedure in place prior to operating in Phase 2.
Limit indoor and outdoor seating capacity:
Do not exceed 50% of maximum building occupancy determined by the fire code
Do not use seating at a bar top or counter
Limit all parties and tables to no more than 5 guests
Use reservation or metering systems to ensure reduced capacity
Outdoor seating occupancy is not added to the maximum indoor building occupancy, physical distancing applies between tables
Phase 2 Food Establishment Operations guidelines
COVID-19 Food Establishment Reopening—Physical Facilities
COVID-19 Food Establishment Phase 2 reopening Checklist
In-store Retail
Retailers may reopen and are required to limit occupancy to 30%. Retailers must also implement contactless payments, require staff to wear face coverings and encourage delivery and curbside pickup options as much as possible. Clark County Public Health recommends that customers wear face coverings before entering the store.
Indoor Fitness
Staffed indoor fitness studios providing private instruction for personal fitness training that requires access to specialized equipment, including but not limited to gymnastics, weight and resistance training, martial arts, yoga and similar instructor-led fitness services may reopen provided safety requirements are followed.
Personal Services
Personal service providers, including cosmetologists, hairstylists, barbers, estheticians, manicurists, nail salon workers, electrologists, makeup artists, tattoo artists, cosmetology schools and esthetics schools may reopen in Phase 2 if able to comply with safety guidelines before re-opening.
Professional Services
Professional service providers defined as accountants, architects, attorneys, engineers, financial advisors, information technologists, insurance agents, tax preparers, and other office-based occupations that are typically serving a client base may reopen in Phase 2 and must comply with safety guidelines.
Events, entertainment and non-essential services
The following entertainment, leisure and non-essential services are included in the ban of gatherings. 
art galleries
conferences
festivals
parades
concerts 
sporting events
theaters
Social, spiritual and recreational gatherings
The following are permitted in Phase 2 while following physical distancing guidelines and wearing face coverings:
Indoor services at a place of worship with up to 25% capacity or 50 individuals, whichever is less (excluding organization staff).
Hold or provide in-home services or counseling inside a person's residence with up to 5 total individuals (excluding organization staff).
In-person outdoor religious services on the organization's property (or immediately adjacent property) with up to 100 individuals, excluding organization staff are currently permitted.


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/reopening-guidance



Reopening Guidance 
Reopening guidance for businesses and workers
Many parts of the economy are already allowed to operate safely as essential businesses.
Under the Safe Start plan, businesses and activities will re-open in phases with adequate physical distancing measures and health standards in place. Businesses may also need to meet additional requirements developed specifically for their industry. Click here for more information.
Additional information
Small Business Administration disaster assistance
Washington State Coronairus Reponse Guidelines for Business and Workers
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention interim guidance for businesses and employers
Washington State Department of Health workplace and employer recommendations





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/tax-relief



Tax relief 
Treasurer halts delinquent tax collections
Business owners impacted by the recent closure orders due to the novel coronavirus will have the option of paying their business personal property taxes over time with no penalties or collection fees. 
Assessor waives business personal property late filing penalties until May 31





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/signage-resources-use-and-share



Signage resources to use and share 
Share these resources to encourage others to follow these simple, life-saving precautions and to help re-open Clark County quickly and safely.
Please wear a face covering / combined English, Russian and Spanish / 8.5 x 11"
Face coverings required  / 8.5 x 11"
Face coverings required / 5.5 x 8.5"


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/adults-60-and-over



Adults 60 and over 
Precautions and activities for adults over 60
Reduce your risk
Here are some important steps you can take to reduce your chances of getting sick:
Stay home.
When in public, practice social distancing by maintaining a 6 foot distance between yourself and others.
Wear a face covering when in public.
Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.
Avoid touching your face.
Make sure you have a supply of all essential medications.
Try alternatives to shaking hands, like a wave or elbow bump.
Special shopping hours for adults 60 and over
If you need to leave the house to collect essential supplies, below is a list of local stores offering special hours for adults 60 and over. This listing was compiled on March 22. Please check with your local outlet to confirm dates and time.
Albertsons Safeway: 7-9 am Tuesdays and Thursdays
Chuck's Produce: 8-10 am Tuesdays and Thursdays
Costco: 8-9 am Tuesdays and Thursdays, beginning March 24
New Seasons: 8-9 am Monday through Friday
Target: First hour of shopping on Wednesdays
Trader Joe's: 9-10 am everyday - dedicated line and expedited store entrance
Walmart: one hour prior to opening Tuesdays beginning March 24; for most stores this will be 6-7 am
Winco: 6-7:30 am Tuesdays and Thursdays
Whole Foods: one hour before normal opening
Need help?
Meals on Wheels delivers nutritious meals delivered on weekdays. To request service and review your eligibility call 503.953.8111 or 866.788.6325 or complete the request form found here.
Clark County Food BankCheck here for updated food pantry locations and hours.
Emergency Housing
If you are currently homeless and seeking emergency shelter, please call 360.695.9677 or learn more about available shelter and housing assistance in Clark County.
Other resources
CDC recommendations for older adults
Additional food assistance





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/individuals-and-families



Individuals and Families 
The Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) 
Learn more about FFCRA requiring certain employers to provide their employees with paid sick leave or expanded family and medical leave for specified reasons related to COVID-19.
Reduce your energy consumption
Learn tips to reduce your energy consumption during quarantine.
Disaster Cash Assistance Program
Washington Connection offers a fast and easy way for families and individuals to apply for a variety of services such as food, cash, child care, long-term care, and Medicare Savings programs.
Housing
Rental Housing / Tenant Rights: Inslee expands eviction moratorium and adds additional protections for residential and commercial tenants.Mortgage Relief:  Learn more about the current moratorium on foreclosure and evictions.
Legal Assistance
Available in Clark County for anyone unable to pay rent due to impacts of the coronavirus. Contact Clark County Volunteer Lawyers: info@ccvlp.org or call 888-201-1014.
Driver's license renewal extension
Governor Inslee has taken action to allow the Department of Licensing to temporarily extend the expiration dates of driver licenses. Persons whose driver license expired after March 1, and have not been renewed and to those who will expire through June 30. These card holders expiration date will be extended for an additional 90 days.
Diabetes Patient Assistance Program
Insulin free for 90 days to diabetes patients affected by COVID-19 job/health insurance losses. Learn more.
COVID-19 Federal Resource Matrix for Rural Communities
USDA and its federal partners have programs that can be used to provide immediate and long-term assistance to rural communities affected by the COVID-19 outbreak.
These programs can provide immediate and long-term assistance to support recovery efforts for rural residents, businesses, and communities through:
technical, training, and management assistance
financial assistance
state and local assistance
This resource matrix organizes funding opportunities identified in the CARES Act and other federal resources that can help support rural America. Opportunities are categorized by customer and assistance type. Download the resource guide.
For more information visit usda.gov/coronavirus
Additional information
Clark County Treasurer postpones individual property tax payment deadline to June 3





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/parents-and-caretakers



Parents and caretakers 
Photo credit: Jerry Wang
Check out your local library for family activities to do at home
Camas Public LibraryFort Vancouver Regional Libraries
Education activities for children age 2-8 
PBS Kids offers a wide range of educational activities, programing and daily newsletters.
Other resources
Vancouver Community Resources during COVID-19
Washington State Department of Health resources for parents/caretakersFinding the right words to talk with children and teens about coronavirusDiscussing coronavirus with your childrenHelping children cope during an emergencyJust for Kids: A comic exploring the new coronavirus (NPR)
 





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/travelers-and-commuters



Travelers and Commuters 
Local travel and commuting
C-TRANWSDOT
Domestic air travel
Portland International Airport is open for essential travel and air cargo operations. Effective Monday, May 18, all travelers and employees are required to wear face coverings.Helping you travel safe at PDX
International travel
Guidance on international travel changes as the coronavirus situation develops. Check for the latest international travel advisories and restrictions.
 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention information for travel





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/schools-and-childcare



Schools and childcare 
Battle Ground Public Schools
Children ages 0–18 can pick-up a free and nutritious sack lunch and sack breakfast. Meals available weekdays from 11 am to noon March 16-27 and April 6–24. 
Amboy Middle School / 22115 NE Chelatchie Rd.
Battle Ground High School / 300 W Main St.
Captain Strong Primary / 1002 NW 6th Ave.
Daybreak Primary / 1900 NW 20th Ave.
Glenwood Heights Primary / 9716 NE 134th St.
Maple Grove Primary / 610 B SW Eaton Blvd.
Pleasant Valley Primary / 14320 NE 50th Ave.
Prairie High School / 11311 NE 119th St.
Tukes Valley Primary / 20601 NE 167th Ave.
Yacolt Primary / 406 W Yacolt Rd.
Camas School District
Grab-and-go breakfast and lunch is available for children ages 1-18. Meals are available for pick-up at from 9 –11 am from the following locations:
Liberty Middle School / 1612 NE Garfield St.
Skyridge Middle School / 5220 NW Parker St.
Four locations are also serving grab and go service from a bus 7:45-8:15 am:
Prune Hill Elementary / 1601 NW Tidland St.
Woodburn Elementary / 2400 NE Woodburn Dr.
Grass Valley  Elementary / 3000 NW Grass Valley Dr.
Dorothy Fox Elementary / 2623 NW Sierra St.
Grab-and-go meals are being distributed at morning elementary school bus stops. Parents and/or students can go to their bus stop at the regular pick up time to receive food.
Evergreen Schools - family and student resources
All elementary schools, plus Cascade and Covington Middle Schools and Heritage High School will have “grab and go” breakfasts and lunches. All schools will be open Monday through Friday from 9:00 to 10:00 a.m., and Burton, Cascade, Covington, Crestline, Ellsworth, Hearthwood, Heritage, Mill Plain and Silver Star will stay open until 11:00 a.m. Over the next several days we will be analyzing our distribution model, and will work to increase the number of meals distributed with fewer vehicles and staff involved to ensure the safety of everyone. A complete list of meal sites, as well as additional community food resources, is available here.
Hockinson School District
Free lunch and breakfast service will be available for all Hockinson School District students until during the COVID closure. At-home meal delivery is available – fill out the Home Delivery Order Form. Meals may also be picked up at Hockinson High School at 16819 NE 159th St, between 9 am - Noon in the bus turnaround. Student(s) must be present to receive meals. 
La Center School District
Breakfast and a sack lunch available Monday-Friday between 11am-12:30 pm from the La Center Elementary and Middle School cafeteria at 700 E 4th St.
Ridgefield School District
All children ages 0-18 may pick up free and nutritious sack lunch and breakfast meals from 11am - 12pm, on weekdays, April 6-24 at the following locations:
Union Ridge Elementary (Building B), 330 N 5th Ave.
South Ridge Elementary (Building B), 502 NW 199th St.
Children must be present.
Vancouver Public Schools - family and student resources
VPS will provide meals to all students affected by emergency school closures. Regardless of which school your child attends, you and your family are welcome to pick up food at no cost to you. Identification is not required.
Sack lunches will be distributed to students between 10 am and noon at the front of the following schools:
Anderson Elementary / 2215 NE 104th St.
Fruit Valley Elementary / 3410 NW Fruit Valley Rd.
Ogden Elementary School / 3200 NE 86th Ave.
Roosevelt Elementary / 2921 Falk Rd.
Washington Elementary School / 2908 S St.
Discovery Middle School / 800 E. 40th St.
Jason Lee Middle School / 8500 NW 9th Ave.
McLoughlin Middle School / 5802 MacArthur Blvd.
In addition, food pantry boxes will be provided while supplies last from 10 to 11 am via drive-through or walk-up. For locations and dates, check here.
Washougal School District
Grab and Go breakfast and lunch meals are available for students from 10am-noon Monday through Friday, from the following locations:
Hamllik Park, 4285 Addy Street
Hathaway Elementary, 630 24th Street
Cape Horn-Skye, 9731 Washougal River Road
No paperwork needed, and both students and families are able to get meals.
Other resources
Washington State Department of Health recommendations for schools and child care facilities
Washington State Department of Health school resources 
Washington State Department of Health child care resources 
ESD 112 remote learning resources for SW Washington
ESD 112 tips for making distance learning work
Just for Kids: A comic exploring the new coronavirus (NPR)
PBS Kids - Educational activities and programing for children ages 2-8





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/pets-and-animals



Pets and Animals 
Can my pet get COVID-19?
There is currently no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the virus that causes COVID-19. Based on the limited information available to the CDC to date, the risk of animals spreading COVID-19 to people is considered to be low.  A small number of pets have been reported to be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, mostly after contact with people with COVID-19. 
Can my pet give me COVID-19?
COVID-19 can spread from people to animals in some situations. If a person with COVID-19 sneezes on your pet and then you touch your pet, you could, in theory, get the disease that way. For this reason, it is important to wash your hands before and after touching a pet, and limit contact with pets if you are sick to help protect other people. 
If I am sick with COVID-19 at home, what precautions should I take when caring for my pet? 
Limit contact with your pet and wash your hands before and after you touch them. We understand this may be very hard on both you and your pet. When you are kissing, snuggling or touching your pet, you may leave germs on the pet that could then be picked up by another person. If possible, a healthy household member should care for the pet while the sick person avoids contact.
How can I make sure I have pet supplies if I must stay at home?
If you are able to, stock up now. Inventory your pet’s food, litter, medication and other supplies sooner rather than later to see what you might need to purchase. If shopping in public is not an option, ask a friend or family member for assistance. Alternatively, you can utilize home delivery services. Pet food banks such as The Pongo Fund or FIDO AniMeals may be able to help as well. 
How should I plan for pet care in case I am hospitalized due to COVID-19?
Make arrangements now. Family, friends and professional pet care services are most likely to provide the best assistance to you and your pet, especially when you plan with them in advance. 
Now is also a good time to update or create your emergency preparedness kit and plan for your pet. Having supplies and clear care instructions in one location will make it much easier for someone else to care for your pet and ensure your pet has their familiar items. 
Have crates, food and extra supplies on hand.
Keep all animal vaccines up to date in the event boarding becomes necessary.
Ensure all medications are documented with dosages and administering directions. Including the prescription from your veterinarian is also helpful.
Pets should have identification: collar with ID tag and a microchip registered with current contact information.
What should I do if I don’t have anybody to provide care for my pet if I am hospitalized?
Provide extra water, food and secure housing for your pet before you leave them alone, even if you think it will only be for a short time. If you will not be able to return home for an extended period of time, tell a trusted person that your pet is at home so they can help coordinate care. Being prepared will make it much easier for someone else to care for your pet and help your pet stay comfortable until you make other arrangements and help can arrive. 
Where can I get more information about COVID-19 in Clark County?
This is a rapidly evolving situation and we encourage you to regularly visit the Clark County Public Health website. 
Other resources
COVID-19 and Animals
Animal related FAQ's from the CDC
Guidance for managing the home care and isolation of people with COVID-19 who have pets or other animals
Pet emergency preparedness
Pet food banks:  thepongound.org and fidoanimeals.org
Humane Society for Southwest Washington
Information provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website, the Association for the Advancement of Animal Welfare Shelter Toolkit and Ready.gov.





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/mental-health-and-support



Mental health and support 
 
Stay connected with others and maintain your social networks.
Everyone reacts differently to stressful situations.  
How you respond to the outbreak can depend on your background, the things that make you different from other people, and  the community you live in.
Tips for coping during COVID-19
WA DOH - Pandemic Stress 
Managing anxiety and stress
WA DOH - Parent and caregiver resources and recommendations
In a crisis?
Suicide Prevention Lifeline / 800-273-8255
Crisis Connections / 866-4-CRISIS (866-427-4747)
Crisis Text Line / Text HOME to 741741
Southwest Washington Crisis Line / 800-626-8137
Grief Support Groups
Community Home Health and Hospice
Anyone who has lost a loved one through an accident, violence, suicide, natural causes or military activity may participate. All support services are free of charge and facilitated by staff and volunteers with specialized grief training.
Contact information: Bereavement coordinator, 360.703.0300 or griefsupport@chhh.org

Additional Resources
Mental and emotion well-being for you and your family
Coronavirus Anxiety Toolkit: Resources for anxiety and your mental health in a global climate of uncertainty.


A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/nuevo-coronavirus



Nuevo coronavirus 
¿Qué debo hacer si tengo síntomas?
Cualquier persna que desarrolle síntomas de COVID-19 debe comunicarse con su proveedor médico cuanto ántes posible para hacerse la prueba. Las pruebas tempranas son vitales para reducir el contagio de COVID-19 en el Condado de Clark.





La mayoria de las cíinicas de salud  ahora ofrecen la prueba de COVID-19. Las personas con dificultades de acceso  a las pruebas por medio de sus proveedores médicos regulares, o quienes no tienen un proveedor de salud, pueden ponerse en contacto con las siguientes cíinicas para solicitar una prueba.
Legacy GoHealth / Hazel Dell, 360.787.4151 / Cascade Park, 360.787.4135
Providence Family Medicine / Battle Ground, 360.687.6650
Rose Urgent Care and Family Practice / Vancouver, 360.952.4457
Sea Mar Community Health Center / Battle Ground. Llame al 360.342.8060 para hacer una cita.
The Vancouver Clinic / Varias ubicaciones. Llame al 360.882.2778 para hacer una cita.
Cualquir persona con síntomas de COVID-19 debe llamar a su proveedor de salud, o a cualquiera de las clínicas mencionadas arriba con anticipación para que se tomen los pasos necesarios para prevenir el exponer a otros.
Se espera que las pruebas no involucren costo alguno a los pacientes, tengan o no aseguranza médica. El comisionado de seguros del estado está exigiendo de las aseguradoras que no soliciten co-pagos y deductibles para las pruebas de COVID-19.
Aquí encontrará información adicional para aquellas personas que tienen, o que creen tener, COVID-19  
¿Está enfermo y cree que tiene la enfermedad del coronavirus (COVID-19)?
¿Ha estado cerca de una persona que tiene la enfermedad del coronavirus (COVID-19)?
¿Está enfermo y le preocupa que pueda ser COVID-19?
¿Qué puedo hacer para mantener mi salud y la de los demás?
Clark County Public Health recomienda tomar las siguientes medidas para mantener la propia salud y la de los demás, y ayudar a reducir la propagación del COVID-19:
Permanezca en casa y evite acudir a lugares públicos.
Cuando esté en lugares públicos, mantenga una distancia de al menos 6 pies (2 metros).
Evite las aglomeraciones.
Evite reunirse con otras personas tanto en espacios interiores como exteriores.
Lávese las manos frecuentemente con agua y jabón por al menos 20 segundos.
Cuando no tenga agua y jabón a la mano, utilice un sanitizante que contenga al menos 60% de alcohol.
Si no se ha lavado las manos, evite tocarse los ojos, la nariz y la boca.
Cubra nariz y boca al toser o estornudar.
Utilice un pañuelo desechable, deséchelo y lávese las manos.
Si está enfermo, permanezca en casa y no esté en contacto con otras personas.
Evite el contacto directo con personas que estén enfermas.
Limpie y desinfecte objetos y superficies que se tocan con frecuencia.
Recomendaciones para coberturas o mascarillas de tela hechas en casa
Los Centros de Control y Prevención de Enfermedades y el Departamento de Salud del Estado de Washington ahora recomiendan utilizar máscaras de tela, como cubrebocas de tela hechas en casa, en lugares públicos en donde las personas no puedan mantener una distancia de 6 pies de los demás, (como en las tiendas de comestibles y farmacias) especialmente en áreas de una significante transmisión comunitaria.
Quedarse en casa con excepción de salidas esenciales y asegurándose que usted se mantiene a un mínimo de 6 pies de distancia de los demás cuando esté en público son las mejores maneras de protegerse de COVID-19. Pero las coberturas no-medicas pueden utilizarse para suplementar estos esfuerzos.
Aqui hay dos cosas a considerar antes de decidir si usará una cobertura o mascarilla:
Las mascarillas médicas deberán ser reservadas para trabajadores al cuidado de la salud. Ha habido escacez en mascarillas médicas; es importante que los trabajadores de salud cuenten con el equipo necesario para de una manera segura hacer su trabajo.
Las coberturas de tela hechas en casa, y otras mascarillas no-medicas no son un reemplazo para quedarse en casa y limitar el contacto con otros. Las mascarillas o coberturas no reemplazan la necesidad de lavarse las manos con frecuencia con agua y jabón, evitar el tocarse la cara sin haber lavado sus manos y mantenerse alejado de personas enfermas. Estas son las mejores maneras de mantenerse sano y de prevenir la propagación de COVID-19.
Cuando una persona que ya está infectada con el virus (aunque no presente síntomas) usa una cobertura o mascarilla de tela, puede tal vez prevenir la propagación de la infección a otros. La cobertura o mascarilla puede bloquear que se propaguen gotitas cuando la persona tose, estornuda o, en menor grado, habla.
Se desconoce cuánta protección una cobertura de tela hecha en casa le proporcione a una persona utilizando cierta cobertura o mascarilla. La cantidad de protección puede que dependa de la calidad de la cobertura y que tan bien se ajuste. Es por eso que las coberturas o mascarillas no deben ser consideradas como una protección confiable, pero puede que sean de cierto beneficio.
Para ser efectivas, las coberturas o mascarillas deberán utilizarse consistentemente. Asegúrese de lavar sus manos ántes y después de ponerse una cobertura de tela y de tener cuidado de no tocarse la cara sin haber lavado sus manos al ajustarla. Las coberturas o mascarillas de tela deben cambiarse cuando estén húmedas y lavarse después de su uso. Las mascarillas o coberturas que estén desgastadas puede que estén contaminadas.
Aprenda como hacer una mascarilla o cobertura sin costura en este video con el Cirujano General Dr. Jerome Adams. Instrucciones adicionales para hacer coberturas de tela disponibles en la pagina web de los Centros de Control y Prevención de Enfermedades. 
Consejos para comprar comestibles
Comprar comestibles se considera una actividad esencial. A continuación, le ofrecemos algunos consejos para mantenerse sano cuando lo haga:
Procure ir pocas veces y en horarios en los que haya menos gente.
De ser posible, una sola persona debe hacer las compras para reducir el número de personas en las calles.
Limpie los manubrios de los carritos o canastas de compras con toallitas húmedas o sanitizante si tiene a la mano.
Tenga cuidado de no tocarse la cara mientras esté en la tienda.
Lávese las manos antes y después de ir a comprar.
Procure mantener una distancia de al menos 6 pies (2 metros).
Cuando llegue casa, lávese las manos nuevamente.
Si usted se encuentra en un grupo de alto riesgo, es decir adultos mayores o quienes tienen un sistema inmune debilitado, pídale a alguien que haga sus compras o que se las entreguen a domicilio.
Consejos para pedir comida para llevar
Actualmente, no hay datos que demuestren que el COVID-19 se propague a través de la comida o del envase de los alimentos.
A continuación, le brindamos algunos consejos para pedir comida para llevar o para entrega a domicilio:
De ser posible, haga sus pedidos en línea o por teléfono en lugar de ir al restaurante.
Pregunte si se ofrece la opción de recoger el pedido en la calle para que no tenga que entrar.
Si va al restaurante para hacer su pedido en persona o a recoger su comida para llevar, asegúrese de mantener una distancia de al menos 6 pies (2 metros).
Retírese tan pronto reciba su pedido y evite las aglomeraciones.
Si le entregan su comida en su domicilio, procure tener el menor contacto posible con el repartidor.
Muchos restaurantes ahora cuentan con servicios que no requieren contacto.
Lávese las manos con agua y jabón después de manipular los recipientes de comida.
No coma directamente del recipiente ni tampoco guarde en este los restos de comida.
Pase la comida a recipientes limpios, y lávese las manos con agua y jabón antes de comer.
Consejos para actividades recreativas al aire libre
Evite aglomeraciones en parques.
Mantenga a una distancia de al menos 6 pies (2 metros).
Muchos parques cerraron el área de juegos infantiles.
Sin embargo, si está abierta, evite tocar los juegos.
Esta área no se limpia ni sanitiza con frecuencia.
Si su hijos entran en contacto con los juegos, tales como columpios o resbaladillas, asegúrese de que no se toquen la cara sin haberse lavado las manos.
Los niños deben lavarse las manos con agua y jabón o bien, utilizar un sanitizante para manos con al menos 60% de alcohol inmediatamente después de haber entrado en contacto con estas superficies.
Si está enfermo, permanezca en casa.
¿Pueden venir a visitarme?
No. El gobernador Inslee emitió la orden “Permanezca en casa, manténgase sano” (Stay Home, Stay Healthy), la cual prohíbe las reuniones sociales de cualquier tipo, independientemente del número de participantes.
Esto no aplica para actividades que solo incluyen personas que son parte de un mismo hogar. Piense en opciones virtuales. Haga una reunión con sus amistades a través de FaceTime.
Recursos adicionales
El Nuevo Virus Corona (COVID-19)
Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades
BienestarWA: Una comunicación del Departamento de Salud del estado de Washington
¿Qué es el nuevo coronavirus?
¿Como puedo Yo prevenir contagiarme con el Novel Coronavirus?
¿Qué significa “quedarse en casa”?
Nuevo coronavirus (COVID-19): guía para cuidadores
COVID-19 Guia de Servicio de Alimentos
Cómo prevenir la propagación del COVID-19: Pautas guía para establecimientos de comida
Elimine los Gérmenes... LAVESE LAS MANOS
Pruebas para COVID-19 
Pautas para la evaluación diaria de miembros del personal y visitantes para la detección de la COVID-19


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/%D0%BA%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BE%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B8%D1%80%D1%83%D1%81



Коронавирус 
Что делать, если у меня есть симптомы?
Каждый, у кого появились симптомы COVID-19, должен обратиться к своему врачу для проведения тестирования как можно скорее. Своевременное тестирование очень важно, чтобы замедлить распространение COVID-19 в Округе Кларк.





Большинство учреждений здравоохранения сейчас предлагают тестирование на коронавирус. Люди, которые не могут получить тест в своём обычном учреждении здравоохранения, или те, у кого нет своего врача, могут обратиться в следующие учреждения и запросить тестирование:
Legacy GoHealth / Hazel Dell, 360.787.4151 / Cascade Park, 360.787.4135
Providence Family Medicine / Battle Ground, 360.687.6650
Rose Urgent Care and Family Practice / Vancouver, 360.952.4457
Sea Mar Community Health Center /Battle Ground. Позвоните 360.342.8060 чтобы назначить время визита
The Vancouver Clinic / Разные локации. Позвоните 360.882.2778 чтобы назначить время визита
Всякий с симптомами коронавируса должен позвонить в своё медицинское учреждение - или одно из вышеперечисленных учреждений - заранее, чтобы учреждения могли принять меры для недопущения распространения вируса.
Тестирование должно быть бесплатным для пациентов, независимо от того, есть ли у них страховка или нет. Уполномоченный штата Вашингтон по страхованию требует, чтобы страховые компании не взимали доплаты (copay) и суммы, подлежащие вычету (deductible), при тестировании на COVID-19.
Дополнительные указания для заболевших людей или подозревающих, что они могли заболеть COVID-19:
Вы плохо себя чувствуете и считаете, что заразились коронавирусом (COVID-19)?
Контактировали ли вы с человеком, инфицированным коронавирусом (COVID-19)?
Вы плохо себя чувствуете и опасаетесь, что заразились COVID19?
Как я могу оставаться здоровым и способствовать здоровью других?
Служба здравоохранения округа Кларк рекомендует принять следующие меры, чтобы оставаться здоровым, способствовать здоровью других и помочь замедлить распространение коронавирусной инфекции COVID-19:
Оставайтесь дома и лишний раз не посещайте места скопления людей.
Соблюдайте дистанцию в общественных местах. Держитесь от людей на расстоянии как минимум 1,8 м (6 футов).
Избегайте скопления людей.
Избегайте встреч с другими людьми как в помещении, так и на улице.
Регулярно мойте руки с мылом в течение как минимум 20 секунд.
При отсутствии мыла и воды используйте антисептик для рук, который содержит по меньшей мере 60 % спирта.
Не прикасайтесь к глазам, носу или рту немытыми руками.
При кашле и чихании прикрывайтесь.
Используйте салфетку, затем выбросьте ее в мусорный бак и вымойте руки.
Если вы почувствовали недомогание, оставайтесь дома и избегайте контакта с другими людьми.
Избегайте тесного контакта с больными людьми.
Очищайте и дезинфицируйте предметы и поверхности, к которым часто прикасаются.
Рекомендации при покупке продуктов
Посещение продуктовых магазинов считается необходимым. Вот несколько рекомендаций, чтобы обезопасить себя в магазинах:
Старайтесь ходить в магазин лишь изредка и в часы наименьшей загрузки, когда там меньше людей.
По возможности отправляйте в магазин только одного члена семьи, чтобы уменьшить количество людей в общественных местах.
Протирайте ручки магазинной тележки или корзины салфетками или антисептиком для рук при наличии таковых.
Не прикасайтесь к лицу, находясь в магазине.

Мойте руки до и после его посещения.


Старайтесь сохранять дистанцию в магазине. Держитесь от людей на расстоянии как минимум 1,8 м (6 футов).


Распаковав покупки дома, снова помойте руки.Если вы находитесь в группе повышенного риска (возраст от 60 лет или наличие иммунодефицита), попросите кого-нибудь совершить покупку для вас или закажите доставку продуктов.

Рекомендации при заказе еды на вынос
На данный момент нет доказательств того, что продукты или их упаковка являются путем передачи коронавирусной инфекции COVID-19.
Рестораны закрыты для посещения, но вы все же можете заказать еду на вынос. Заказывая еду на вынос или доставку, придерживайтесь следующих рекомендаций:
По возможности заказывайте онлайн или по телефону, вместо того чтобы идти в ресторан.
Узнайте, предлагает ли ресторан самовывоз по договоренности, чтобы не заходить в ресторан за своим заказом.

Если вы заказываете самостоятельно или забираете еду на вынос, убедитесь, что вы держитесь от других людей в заведении на расстоянии как минимум 1,8 м (6 футов).


Уходите, как только получите заказ; не толпитесь.


Если вы выбрали доставку, сведите контакт с доставщиком к минимуму.


Многие предприятия сейчас предлагают бесконтактную доставку.


Помойте руки с мылом после обработки доставленных контейнеров с едой.


Не ешьте из доставленных контейнеров и не храните в них остатки еды.


Переложите еду в чистые контейнеры и помойте руки с мылом перед едой.

Рекомендации в отношении досуга на свежем воздухе​
Не собирайтесь группами в парках.
Держитесь от людей на расстоянии как минимум 1,8 м (6 футов).
Во многих парках закрыли игровые площадки.
Если игровая площадка открыта, не прикасайтесь к находящимся поблизости предметам.
Возможно, что предметы в зоне игровой площадки недостаточно часто очищаются и дезинфицируются.
Если дети все же контактировали с предметами в зоне игровой площадки, такими как качели и горки, следите за тем, чтобы они не прикасались к лицу немытыми руками.
Необходимо, чтобы сразу же после контакта с предметами в зоне игровой площадки дети помыли руки с мылом или воспользовались антисептиком для рук, который содержит по меньшей мере 60 % спирта.
Если вы почувствовали недомогание, оставайтесь дома.
Можно ли пригласить в гости близких друзей?
Нет. В контексте официального объявления губернатора Инсли «Оставайтесь дома, оставайтесь здоровыми» запрещается проведение любых собраний, независимо от количества их участников.
Это не относится к деятельности, включающей членов только одной семьи. Мыслите виртуально — запланируйте встречу с друзьями с помощью FaceTime.
Дополнительные ресурсы
COVID-19
Новый штамм коронавируса
Что значит "оставайтесь дома"? Узнайте больше здесь.
Вы плохо себя чувствуете и считаете, что заразились коронавирусом (COVID-19)?
Контактировали ли вы с человеком, инфицированным коронавирусом (COVID-19)?
Вы плохо себя чувствуете и опасаетесь, что заразились COVID19?
Новый штамм коронавируса (COVID-19). Руководство для лиц, осуществляющих уход за больными
Предотвращение распространения COVID-19: руководство для заведений общественного питания
Тестирование для COVID-19 
Руководство по ежедневному обследованию персонала и посетителей на COVID-19


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/tr%E1%BB%9F-v%E1%BB%81-ban-s%E1%BB%A9c-kh%E1%BB%8Fe-c%C3%B4ng-vietnamese



Trở về Ban Sức Khỏe Công - Vietnamese 
Vi-rút Corona Mới (COVID-19)
Vi-rút Corona Mới​
"Ở nhà" nghĩa là gì? Hãy tìm hiểu thêm tại đây.​
Quý vị bị ố m và cho rằ ng quý vị có thể đã bị nhiễ m vi-rút corona (COVID-19)?​
Vi-rút Corona Mới (COVID-19): Hướng Dẫn Dành Cho Người Chăm Sóc 
Quý vị có tiếp xúc gần với người nhiễm vi-rút corona (COVID-19) không?


A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/%E9%87%8D%E8%BF%94%E5%85%AC%E5%85%B1%E5%8C%BB%E7%96%97%E4%BF%9D%E5%81%A5-chinese



重返公共医疗保健 - Chinese 
新型冠状病毒 (COVID-19)
指南 “待在家中”指的是什么？了解更多。​
新型冠狀病毒  ​
新型冠状病毒 (COVID-19)：看护人指南 计划 
防止 COVID-19 传播：食品企业


A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/%EA%B3%B5%EC%A4%91%EB%B3%B4%EA%B1%B4%EB%B6%80%EB%A1%9C-%EB%B3%B5%EA%B7%80-korean



공중보건부로 복귀 - Korean 
신종 코로나바이러스(코로나19)
신종 코로나바이러스
코로나바이러스 질환(COVID-19) 감염이 의심되시나요?
신종 코로나바이러스(코로나19) 간병인 지침 계획  ​
코로나바이러스 질환(COVID-19) 확진자와 접촉한 적이 있나요? 
코로나 19 확산 방지: 식당 업소용 지침  


A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/asl-american-sign-language



ASL American Sign Language 

 
This video series, produced by the State of Washington Department of Health, covers current COVID-19 facts and guidance to keep you healthy.
IntroductionWhat is COVID-19?How does COVID-19 spread?COVID-19 symptoms updated 4.29.20What to do if you are sickPrevention and Treatment of COVID-19Stigma and COVID-19What can you do about COVID-19?What is social distancing?Use of cloth face coverings to help slow the spread of COVID-19Answers to questions from children about COVID-19Tips to keep children healthy while school is outCan COVID-19 be passed from a pregnant woman to the fetus or newborn?What is the risk to pregnant women of getting COVID-19?





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/cities-and-agencies



Cities and agencies 
Cities
Battle Ground
Camas
LaCenter
Ridgefield
Vancouver
Yacolt
Washougal
Woodland
 
Agencies
Clark Public Utilities
CRESA
C-TRAN
Port of Vancouver
WSDOT
 





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/how-help



How to help 
Many of the programs in our community rely heavily on volunteer help. If you are interested, please considering following-up with one of the local organizations listed below. Thank you for your support!
Donate / Volunteer
Medical gloves, gowns, surgical and N95 masks in unopened boxes. To make a donation send an email to Clark Regional Emergency Services Agency: COVIDsupplies@cresa911.org. Please include your contact information and the items and amounts you can provide. We will contact you to schedule a time to deliver your donation.
Contact the American Red Cross to donate blood.
The Council for the Homeless needs volunteers.
The following was published in The Columbian on March 22, 2020
Visit mowp.org/volunteer to sign up to volunteer delivering meals to seniors for Meals on Wheels People or visit mowp.org/donate to make a financial donation.
Volunteer opportunities and in-kind donation needs will be posted to the Clark County Food Bank's Facebook page at facebook.com/clarkcountyfoodbank. Financial donations can be made to the COVID-19 Response Fund at clarkcountyfoodbank.org/coronavirus.
Share is accepting donations of toilet paper, cleaning wipes, protein drinks and shelf-stable proteins such as peanut butter and beans by appointment only. Contact is Molly at mevjen@sharevancouver.org or 360-605-9752.
Contribute to the SW Washington COVID Response Fund at cfsww.org/nonprofits/sw-washington-covid-response-fund/.
FISH Westside Food Pantry of Vancouver needs volunteers to help make food boxes in the warehouse on weekdays. Call volunteer coordinator Dori at 360-566-3243 or email dorim@fishvancouver.org and wendyb@fishvancouer.org to sign up.
North County Community Food Bank in Battle Ground seeks volunteers every weekday. Those who are healthy and interested should email executive.director@nccfoodbank.org or call 360-687-5007 and ask for Liz Cerveny or Jake Smith.
The Winter Hospitality Overflow shelter at St. Paul Lutheran Church needs coverage for certain shifts. Those who are healthy and able to help at the men's overnight shelter can contact Joy Gault at 360-901-5230 or jmgault@aol.com.
Visit the Vancouver, Wa COVID-19 Community Aid & Support at https://www.facebook.com/groups/582096935713593/.
PeaceHealth accepting donations and facilitating distribution of cloth mask community donations
 
Drop Off
Accepting completed cloth masks only (no materials or mask-making supplies)
Individual Need
Only one person per household or group for pick up - practice social distancing
Sign form indicating how many are needed/taken
Take masks and stay safe
Group Need
Contact PeaceHealth SW Foundation (PHSWF): Covid-19SWSupplies@peacehealth.org
Identify group, number of masks needed, date/time you will pick-up
Important Notice
All masks are donated - PHSWF is limited to amount on hand based on community support
PHSWF does not take orders, create call back lists or prioritize delivery
PHSWF will hold a group need order until the agreed pickup time
If you miss your pickup time, masks will be made available to others
Please accept these masks in the spirit of giving that PHSWF and the community members who made them intended.
We are all in this together, so please, use what you take and only take what you need.
Hours M-F 10 am - 2 pm
602 NE 92nd Ave, Vancouver WA





Scraping from https://www.clark.wa.gov/covid19/covid-19-data



COVID-19 data 
Clark County Public Health COVID-19 status
Stay up-to-date with current status of COVID-19 cases and related data in Clark County.
COVID-19 dashboard: Washington Department of Health

COVID-19 resource projects by state
The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, an independent health research institute at the University of Washington, has put together a web app that models COVID-19 projections by state.
The model gives the date the need for resources is expected to peak in each state, including ICU beds and ventilators. The model also projects the deaths per day and total deaths related to COVID-19.
Coronavirus COVID-19 cases in Washington
Interactive map and data organized by county. Prepared by the Washington Department of Health.
Coronavirus COVID-19 global cases
The Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University & Medicine presents global data on confirmed cases world-wide. This interactive map includes confirmed number of cases, deaths, recovered and active cases.


