Scraping from https://www.denvergov.org/content/denvergov/en/covid-19/recovery-guidance/face-covering.html

Scraped on 2020-6-14

Wearing & Making Face Coverings



Wearing & Making Face Coverings





Why We Should Wear Face Coverings





We remain at risk to the spread of COVID-19. As we begin to gradually relax various orders, retailers and other businesses will be engaging more with customers and employees in person. It’s critical we keep each other safe so we don’t lose the progress made in recent weeks. Your face covering protects me and my face covering protects you. Many Denver residents have already adopted the face covering guideline, but we need everyone to continue to do their part to keep everyone safe.
People with COVID-19 can spread the virus before symptoms appear and asymptomatically. Both groups can unknowingly spread the virus to others.





How To Wear A Face Covering





Frequently Asked Questions About Face Coverings





How To Make Face Masks





From the Colorado Mask Project: "Research shows that DIY masks can help block the spread of COVID-19, especially by preventing people who are asymptomatically infected from spreading the disease unknowingly. That's why government officials—including Governor Jared Polis—are recommending their widespread use. ‍However, given the current mask shortages impacting medical professionals, it’s essential that the general public leaves the supply of N95 medical masks to healthcare workers."


Learn more about DIY masks at coloradomaskproject.com






Face Covering Required Signs can be downloaded below for your business or other site below:
Face Covering Required Poster 11x17 (PDF)
Face Covering Required Poster 8.5x11 (PDF)





 





With Safer at Home underway and the phased loosening of state restrictions continuing, business and leisure activities are resuming in Denver. As of June 9, face coverings continue to be mandatory while inside of or waiting in line to enter any retail or commercial business, or any location or facility offering government or health care services and while waiting for or riding on public transportation.
Since the beginning of May, many businesses have been allowed to re-open with 50 percent of employees if able to maintain six-foot physical distancing, abide by the face covering order and other guidelines.
As of May 27, the city aligned with the State’s decision allowing restaurants to resume limited sit-down service. Face coverings are required for restaurant employees and customers, except while eating and drinking.
Everyone is urged to continue to stay at home unless absolutely necessary. We know this is a big ask of our residents and businesses, but it is a necessary step to ensure the health and safety of our community.

COVID-19 Denver Recovery Presentation: English (PDF) & Spanish (PDF)












Looking to Volunteer?





You can find a number of options through organizations like Mile High United Way and HelpNowColorado on our main Donation and volunteer page.





Need Volunteers?
Denver local organizations are encouraged to register volunteer needs through Mile High United Way by emailing volunteer@unitedwaydenver.org.
You may register your needs on the state’s HelpColoradoNow website.



