Scraping from https://www.denvergov.org/content/denvergov/en/covid-19/recovery-guidance/guidance-for-residents.html

Scraped on 2020-6-14

Guidance For Residents



Guidance For Residents





What does the Safer at Home Order look like in Denver?
The city is gradually moving from an emergency response phase into one of relief and recovery. This does not mean that COVID-19’s threat to public health has passed – it remains very real – but city and community leaders are planning and beginning to implement a path forward that preserves community health and safety while balancing it with economic well-being.

Beginning Wednesday, May 6, face coverings are mandatory while inside of, or waiting in line to enter, any retail or commercial business, or any location or facility offering government or health care services, and while waiting for or riding public transportation.
On Friday, May 8, Denver’s Stay-at-Home Order expires, although everyone is encouraged to continue to take every precaution to protect their level of risk, and the risk posed to others.
On Saturday, May 9, some businesses will gradually begin to re-open with strict social distancing and face covering guidelines in place, including precautions to limit both the number of employees onsite at a given time as well as the number of customers.
On Wednesday, May 27, in-person dining can resume at 50% capacity.
Public and private gatherings of more than 10 people will continue to be prohibited through July 1

What restrictions remain for all residents?

Face coverings required for all residents over age three who are interacting with businesses, government and health care services, mass transit and ride-share services.
Throughout July 1, mass gatherings of more than 10 people remain prohibited.
Streets that previously limited through traffic to create more space for people to enjoy the outdoors shall remain in this limited status.






Protecting Yourself, Family, & Community





Face coverings (masks) are a crucial part of these safety measures. Your face covering protects me and my face covering protects you. Many Denver residents have already adopted the face covering guideline, but we need everyone to continue to do their part to keep everyone safe.
People with COVID-19 can spread the virus before symptoms appear and asymptomatically. Both groups can unknowingly spread the virus to others.
The face covering order mandates that any person, including children over the age of three, must wear a face covering in specific public settings.
You must wear a face covering when:

Inside, or in line to enter, any retail or commercial business, or any facility to receive government, or healthcare services;
As a passenger on or while waiting for public transportation, paratransit vehicle, taxi, private car service, ride-sharing vehicle, or any other vehicle for hire;
You are working at a retail or commercial business or performing critical government functions.

Face coverings are encouraged at all other times while out in public. For specific guidance, please consult the public health order.






Enforcing the Public Order





Residents need to take this face covering order seriously, as they did with the stay at home order. Multiple city agencies will be involved in enforcement, with the goal of 100% compliance and keeping everyone safe through education first.

Businesses that are not observing the order may be reported to 3-1-1 for lack of signage, or because employees or customers are not compliant. Reports submitted to 311 will be forwarded to the Denver Department of Public Health and Environment. Face covering signage for businesses is available at denvergov.org/covid19.
Individuals who are not wearing face coverings may be reported to 311. Anyone not wearing a face covering as mandated in the Order could be fined up to $999 and could be subject to additional civil penalties. The city will also use 311 data to determine where more education is needed.





Finding Relief Support & Resources





The City and County of Denver is adapting many services to ensure residents have access to the services they need during COVID-19 in a safe and effective way. Most city services can be conducted online or via phone. For a list of available online services, visit Denvergov.org or call 311.
The city is working in partnership with a number of nonprofit, philanthropic and private industry partners to ensure everyone is cared for during the epidemic. Visit the city’s Relief Support Resources page on Denvergov.org to find resources for: older adults, businesses, jobs, food, health and wellness, housing, people living with disabilities, transportation and mobility, youth and other resources.
 





Testing Information





For more information on testing, please visit the link below:








 





With Safer at Home underway and the phased loosening of state restrictions continuing, business and leisure activities are resuming in Denver. As of June 9, face coverings continue to be mandatory while inside of or waiting in line to enter any retail or commercial business, or any location or facility offering government or health care services and while waiting for or riding on public transportation.
Since the beginning of May, many businesses have been allowed to re-open with 50 percent of employees if able to maintain six-foot physical distancing, abide by the face covering order and other guidelines.
As of May 27, the city aligned with the State’s decision allowing restaurants to resume limited sit-down service. Face coverings are required for restaurant employees and customers, except while eating and drinking.
Everyone is urged to continue to stay at home unless absolutely necessary. We know this is a big ask of our residents and businesses, but it is a necessary step to ensure the health and safety of our community.

COVID-19 Denver Recovery Presentation: English (PDF) & Spanish (PDF)






Additional Resources





Multilingual Materials





To report an issue or for additional questions and assistance, please contact us at:
Within Denver, dial 3-1-1
Outside of Denver, dial 720-913-1311





 CO-HELP
Colorado’s call line for general questions about COVID-19 provides answers in many languages including English, Spanish (Español), Mandarin (普通话) and more.
303-389-1687 or
1-877-462-2911
COHELP@RMPDC.org (answers in English only)





 If you need medical attention, contact a health care provider.



