


Scraping from http://www.caddo.org/476/COVID-19


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://www.caddosheriff.org/content.php?c=128




Caddo Sheriff’s Office
 
Updated April 13, 2020 / 10:08 a.m. 
New or updated information is in bold.
 
The Caddo Sheriff’s Office will continue to answer calls for service from the public while practicing preventative measures to protect our employees.
 
All substations will be staffed but closed to the public.
 
Fines/Bonds and the Tax Office in the Courthouse are closed. Citizens are urged to pay fines, bonds, tickets, restitution, outstanding court costs, and taxes online at caddosheriff.org. Regarding Fines and Bonds, assistance is available by phone at 681-0622 from 8:30 a.m. until 1 p.m. daily.
 Regarding taxes, payments can also be made by mail in the form of a money order or bank cashier's check. All amounts are current. If you need a redemption amount, email us at tax@caddosheriff.org and we will respond. 
 
Fingerprinting at the Courthouse is temporarily suspended.
 
Vehicle crash reports are available online.
 
Sheriff’s Safety Town is closed until further notice.
 
All previously scheduled Community Programs are canceled until further notice.
 
The AARP class scheduled for May April 8 / May 14 has been cancelled.
 
ALL programs at Caddo Correctional Center are suspended until further notice.  This includes Re-entry, Carpentry, programs of any kind in the housing unit, Religious Services, HI-SET, and the law library.
 
On-site visitation for inmates at CCC has been suspended until further notice. Visitors can still visit remotely. More information about remote visits is available at the Sheriff’s Office website at www.caddosheriff.org under Inmate-Jail Information/Visitation Schedule.
 
Anyone entering CCC will be required to undergo a medical screening before entering the jail. The screening includes a temperature check and response to three brief health-related questions.  
 
Convicted sex offenders who must visit CCC to register or maintain compliance with their registration may visit the jail but will also be required to undergo medical screening.
 
Inmates will continue to receive a routine medical screening, including temperature check, upon booking.
 
Judicial sales have been suspended due to the Governor's Emergency Declaration.
 
Concealed handgun permit expirations are suspended until May 10, 2020, by order of the Governor.
 
Caddo Schools
 (Please contact Caddo Schools for further updates)
 
While Caddo Parish Public Schools will be closed beginning March 13 and continuing through April 13, the district has established feeding sites throughout the parish to allow school-aged children to continue to receive nutritious meals each day. Parents can drive up to schools during designated times and bagged meals will be provided for easy pick up. Families will not need to enter the school buildings or even exit the car as part of the site protocols. Grab-and-go meal service will not take place during Spring Break, March 23-27. 
Meal service for the week of April 13-17 will take place on Tuesday, April 14.
 
On
 
March 30, meal service will be reduced to 18 sites. Breakfast and lunch for the week can be picked up from 8:30-11:30 a.m. each Monday. 
 
The following schools will serve as feeding sites:
 
Caddo Middle Magnet
 
Caddo Heights Elementary School
 
C.E. Byrd High School
 
Caddo Magnet High School
 
Captain Shreve High School
 
Fair Park Middle School
 
Blanchard Elementary
 
J.S. Clark Elementary School
 
Keithville Elementary/Middle School
 
North Caddo Elementary/Middle School
 
Northside Elementary
 
Ridgewood Middle School
 
Turner Elementary/Middle School
 
University Elementary School
 
Walnut Hill Elementary/Middle School
 
Westwood Elementary School
 
Woodlawn High School
 
Southern Hills Elementary
 
Students will begin at-home learning assignments on March 30. To learn more families can access the following link:
 
https://sites.google.com/caddoschools.org/caddohomelearning/parents-students?authuser=0
 
Information on social-emotional support can be found at www.caddoschools.org/caddo-cares.  The site includes information on which mental health agencies in Caddo Parish provide tele-health service.
 
Caddo Commission
 (Please contact the Caddo Commission at 
318-226-6900
 for further updates)
 
In abundance of caution and for the health and safety of our citizens and parish employees, we are temporarily limiting access to the 8th floor of Government Plaza beginning TUESDAY, MARCH 17th until further notice.
 
Parish services in Government Plaza (8th floor) such as adjudicated properties, all permits, and all licenses will be processed by phone, online or mail. The Parish will only be collecting payments for these services by phone or by mail, online.
 
All payments to parish vendors will be issued by mail and ACH deposit, when possible.
 
Applications for employment will only be accepted online.
 
The Caddo Parish Courthouse is open from 8 a.m. until 1 p.m., with the exception of marriage licenses and protective orders through the Clerk of Court’s office. Citizens must contact the Clerk of Court’s office.
 
Caddo Parish Juvenile Services is suspending visits to the juvenile detention center. Only virtual visits will occur. 
 
The Caddo Parish Juvenile Court has announced new hours of operation beginning Tuesday, March 24, 2020. The Juvenile Court and Clerk’s office will open at 8:30am and close at 1:00pm until further notice. Parties and witnesses whose attendance is required for trials and hearings scheduled after 1pm will be allowed to enter the building in accordance with the Court’s existing COVID-19 protocol.
 
ALL Parish parks facilities are closed. This includes trails, playgrounds, etc.
 
Compactor sites will be reducing hours. Visit 
http://www.caddo.org/245/Solid-Waste
  for revised hours.
Animal Services
 
Caddo Parish Animal Services is CLOSED to the public. Adoptions and lost pet returns may be scheduled by appointment only by calling 
226-6624
.
 
The shelter is closed to tours – the Parish will conduct virtual tours at 11am, 2p, and 5p via the Parish’s website and social media.
 
Animal Control Officers are responding to emergency calls only.
 
All off-site Parish sponsored events are postponed.
 
Citizens are encouraged to view adoptable and lost animals via website.
 
City of  Shreveport
 
(Please contact the City of Shreveport or refer to their website for further updates)
 
Government Plaza
 
In an effort to protect the health of Shreveport citizens and city employees, the City of Shreveport will scale back to essential personnel at Government Plaza and all government facilities. These precautions will not interrupt emergency response from the Shreveport Police or Fire Departments, employee payroll, curbside solid waste collection, or water and sewerage service. 
 
We are limiting access to Government Plaza to employees only. We encourage citizens to contact City Departments by phone.
 
Human Resources is not receiving any employment applications at this time.
 
We are encouraging citizens to pay water bills online, by phone, or via mail.   Property taxes cannot be paid over the phone.
 
If you must pay bills in person, there is a payment drop box located on the first floor of Government Plaza. The cashier window is closed.
 
SPAR has increased the cleaning frequency in Government Plaza and is disinfecting frequently touched surfaces as well as work spaces to help prevent the virus from spreading through Government Plaza and disrupting city operations.
 
SPAR
 
SPAR is closing all playgrounds and golf courses in addition to recreation centers, which were closed last week. Public walking trails will remain open but citizens are urged to keep six feet distance between themselves and others.
 
Entry gates at recreation centers will be locked to reduce traffic. 
Shreveport Fire Department
 
Absent severe symptoms (chest pains, shortness of breath), call your primary care physician or an urgent care center, rather than emergency personnel.
 
All 911 calls are screened for potential COVID-19 symptoms.
 
Precautions are taken to minimize direct contact between first responders and patients
 
Additionally, first responders are wearing Personal Protective Equipment to reduce the risk of infection: N-95 masks, gowns, and gloves.
 
 Hospitals are notified in advance of transport so additional precautions can be taken at healthcare facilities.
 
All ambulances are disinfected after transports.
 
Water and Sewerage
 
The Department of Water and Sewerage is minimizing contact with customers to prevent the spread of coronavirus in our community and ensure continuity of service.
 
We are encouraging citizens to pay water bills online, by phone, or via mail.
 
If you must pay bills in person, there is a payment drop box located on the first floor of Government Plaza. The cashier window is closed.
 
Water & Sewerage will not be disconnecting water service for non-payment at this time.  After this public health crisis has passed, disconnections will resume on delinquent accounts.
 
SporTran
 
SporTran will resume providing free transportation to Caddo Parish school-aged children from 7:30 a.m. until noon each Monday while schools are closed in conjunction with the Caddo Schools feeding program.
 
SporTran will continue operating with an amended schedule, which can be found at www.sportran.org. We encourage citizens to use public transit only for essential travel: work, healthcare, nutrition. 
 
SporTran is offering reduced lift line service for essential healthcare transport only.
 
SporTran has created a website to assist passengers with this transition.
 
Solid Waste Collection
 
Curbside solid waste service is currently running on its regular schedule.
 
Bulk trash collection has been suspended until further notice.
 
Shreveport Police Department
 
The Shreveport Police complex is limiting access to the public. Visitors will only be able to access the building at the patrol desk or in the records division until further notice. All citizens are requested to contact police by phone or email.
 
Officers are foregoing daily role calls in large groups and will respond to the station only to obtain their vehicles and necessary paperwork to complete their tour of duty.
 
Shreveport Police Officers are cleaning patrol cars after each transport.
 
City jail utilizes video visitation which requires no contact between visitors, employees, or inmates. The cleaning regimen at City Jail has been accelerated, including wiping down all phone booths after a visitation.
 
The Detective Bureau will be open, but on a limited basis.  Citizens must call 
318-673-6995
 to schedule an appointment with an investigator.  They must provide their name, contact number, report number, and nature of the request.  An investigator will return their phone call and set up a time to meet with them.
 
Those without appointments will not be allowed into any area outside of the front waiting area of the police station.  Appointments will not be made at the window in the detective bureau.  Police will take action in the event of an emergency.
 
 
The Information Service Bureau is closed to the public.  Please purchase reports by going to our web site at: 
https://www.shreveportla.gov/465/Services
.
	If further information or assistance is needed, you may call the records office at 
318-673-7085
.
 
The Patrol Desk will remain open to the public for the time being but we ask citizens to call the patrol desk at 
318-673-7223
 to have their concerns addressed and avoid coming to the police station if possible.
 
 
 
ABO services have been suspended until further notice.
 
 
Shreveport Regional Airport
 
The regular cleaning schedule has been accelerated.
 
Door Knobs and handles are being cleaned with greater frequency, as are water fountains.
 
Hand sanitizing stations have been installed at frequent intervals throughout the airport.
 
Hospitals
Drive-through COVID-19 testing at:
 
Willis Knighton Innovation Center, 2105 Airline Drive, Bossier City, LA
 
For Willis-Knighton Health System physician network patients
 
Must have a Willis Knighton Health System physician’s order prior to testing
 
Mon-Fri 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM
Drive-through COVID-19 testing at:
 
CHRISTUS Health System Drive-through Testing
 
For CHRISTUS Health System physician network patients
 
Must have a CHRISTUS Health System physician’s order prior to testing.
 
1400 East Bert Kouns Loop
 
Mon-Fri 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM
Mobile COVID-19 Evaluation site:
 
Ochsner – LSU Health Shreveport, 1541 Kings Highway, Shreveport
 
Located in the parking lot of the LSU Health - Allied Health Building
 
Not open for walk-in. Available for patients referred from an Ochsner LSU Health physician only for further screening.
 
Phone: 
1-318-626-0050
 
Mon-Fri 8:00 AM – 4:30 PM
 
Courts
 
Shreveport City Court is closed and not scheduled to reopen until Monday, April 13, 2020. All court appearances scheduled on April 13, 2020 will go forward unless this EMERGENCY ORDER issued on March 18, 2020 is extended.
 
SWEPCO
 
Scams – During the COVID-19 crisis, SWEPCO is continually monitoring and working to heighten awareness of scams. SWEPCO will never demand immediate payment for a customer to avoid disconnection, and we will never ask customers to use pre-paid debit cards for payment. Scammers’ tactics include: ï‚· Threatening to shut off power unless an immediate payment is made; ï‚· Going door to door and negotiating total bill amounts if an immediate payment is made; ï‚· Telling customers they need a new meter, but a payment must be made before the new meter is installed; ï‚· Offering a discount on their SWEPCO bill if they sign up for auto-pay; ï‚· Demanding a deposit be paid immediately. Report scam attempts to SWEPCO at 1-888-216-3523. SWEPCO tracks fraud attempts and works with local, state and federal law enforcement agencies to identify and prosecute scammers. More information on scammers’ tactics may be found at SWEPCO.com/StopScams.
 
 
SWEPCO has temporarily suspended all service disconnections for non-payment. We know our customers are concerned about their families, and ensuring they have reliable electric service allows them to focus on staying healthy and well. ï‚· We urge customers to make every effort to keep their accounts current during the period when disconnections are suspended. If customers anticipate problems paying their electric bill, they should contact us by phone at 1-888-216-3523 or through Facebook or Twitter to discuss payment options.  
Salvation Army
 
The Salvation Army has introduced an Emotional and Spiritual Care Hotline for anyone in the United States to call during the pandemic. The hours of operation are 9:00 am to 9:00 pm EDT seven days a week. By calling 844-458-HOPE (4673), trained Salvation Army officers and employees are available to talk, advise, and above all, pray for individuals, families and situations. 
VOAD
 
 
 
 
Holy Angels Residential Facility
 
 
 
Gift shops are closed to the public
 
 
 
 
 
Shreveport-Bossier Rescue Mission
 
 
 
Now offering a 24 hour intake schedule
 
 
 
 
 
American Red Cross
 
 
 
Offering virtual disaster relief, financial assistance and  counseling
 
 
 
 
 
Goodwill Industries of North Louisiana
 
 
 
All retail stores and Job Center are closed
 
 
 
 
 
The Fuller Center for Housing of Northwest Louisiana Inc.
 
 
 
Reduced hours of operation
 
 
 
 
 
MLK Health Center & Pharmacy
 
 
 
The only service provided is curbside pharmacy services until May 1, 2020.  Patients must call for an appointment for medication pickup. Office hours to drop off prescriptions are Monday thru Friday from 8am to 3pm.
 
 
 
 
 
Girl Scouts of Louisiana - Pines to the Gulf
 
 
 
All Offices, Camps, Retails Shops and Program Services are closed. Staff is answering phone lines from Virtual programs can be accessed at www.gslpg.org.
 
 
 
 
 
Christian Service Program
 
 
 
To-go plates only. Breakfast 8am-10am Lunch 12pm-2pm
 
 
 
 
 
The Food Bank of Central Louisiana
 
 
 
Expanded days and hours for emergency food box applications and distribution. Increased number of mobile pantry sites
 
 
 
 
 
Benton United Methodist Church
 
 
 
Food pick up appointments are made on Thursday. Fire recovery program continues. All other programs are suspended.
 
 
 
 
 
The Salvation Army
 
 
 
Face to face social work has been temporarily suspended. Mobile feeding unit is in operation
 
 
 
 
 
Catholic Charities of North Louisiana
 
 
 
All offices are closed. Emails will be answered at info@ccnla.org. Messages will be answered at 318.525.4947
 
 
 
 




Scraping from https://www.caddosheriff.org/content.php?c=127


A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
