Scraping from https://www.visitjeffersonparish.com/about-us/jefferson-parish-coronavirus-preparedness/


The Jefferson Convention & Visitors Bureau, Inc. (JCVB) is monitoring the Coronavirus (COVID-19) through engagement with local and state health department officials as well the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO) to stay abreast of this rapidly evolving situation.

As you develop your upcoming travel plans, we encourage you to follow healthy travel practices, especially during flu season, and reference the resources below from the CDC, WHO and industry organizations, as well as updates from our local industry partners.
The JCVB will work diligently to update our calendar of events as we receive information on postponements and cancellations. In an effort to inform our visitors and residents, provided below is an update on closures and recommended precautions:  
We ask visitors and residents to take the necessary precautions and follow guidelines set forth by the CDC including the following:
- Increase frequency in wiping down surfaces
- Providing hand sanitizer in common areas for guests and visitors
- Washing hands frequently and properly
- Wear masks when in public
- Practice social distancing
The Jefferson Parish Health Department and the Louisiana Department of Health are working with the CDC to maintain strong infectious disease protocols.
Citizens looking for information about COVID-19 can dial 211 or text the keyword LACOVID to 898-211 for the most current information about the outbreak as it becomes available. Jefferson Parish residents can also text JPALERT to 888-777 for real-time local updates. For updates on Jefferson Parish's response to the coronavirus situation and more, visit their COVID-19 Dashboard HERE
The Jefferson Parish Government is dedicated to assisting our business owners with best practices and outreach. The COVID Compliance – See It, Say It Form has been activated for you to report all your concerns with local businesses. They will collect your complaints and work with our partner agencies to have them addressed.
Click for TESTING SITES.
Jefferson Parish President Cynthia Lee Sheng issued an emergency proclamation on Monday, June 29th. The public is required to wear masks inside all businesses and public places within Jefferson Parish. The order will begin on Wednesday, July 1st, and has no end date. 
People in Jefferson Parish must wear face coverings when they are in the high-risk situations listed below:
The following individuals are exempt from wearing a mask or face covering:
This order also excludes schools, summer camps and daycares, as they should follow the guidance set forth by the Louisiana Department of Health and the Louisiana Department of Education. CLICK HERE for guidance for childcare and summer schools from the Department of Health. CLICK HERE for school reopening guidelines and resources from the Department of Education.
The Jefferson Parish Parks and Recreation Department (JPRD) facilities and programs that are open during Phase Two include the following (visit www.JPRD.org for more information):
- Tennis Courts, Batting Cages, Dog Parks, Fishing Piers, Disc Golf and Boardwalks
- Fields and open green space (under social distancing guidelines)
- Outdoor restrooms, outdoor water fountains, outdoor exercise equipment and Tot Lots (to be cleaned and sanitized during open hours)
- Shelters, meeting rooms/rental reservations and bookings will resume on June 5 at JPRD facilities; facility reservations will be limited to 50% capacity
- Carousel and Spray Parks open at 50% capacity (note: Lafreniere Park currently closed under construction; Parc de Families Spray Park will reopen on June 10)
- All non-contact and solo sports, which includes JPRD Youth softball and baseball with the first game on June 15
- Johnny Jacobs Pool will open on June 13 for lap swimming, water aerobics, family reservations for controlled recreational swim (swim lessons will not be offered during Phase Two)
- Concession Stands are open to serve packaged items and bottled drinks only
- Summer Camps started on June 1; Enrichment Camps begin on July 6, JPRD Leisure Services Classes will resume at 50% of their enrollment capacity.
JPRD facilities and programs to remain closed during Phase Two:

- All contact sports, including outdoor basketball goals
- All senior programs, including Golden Age programming 
The Jefferson Parish Transit Department (JeT) requires all riders to continue to wear a face-covering or mask upon boarding, JeT has reinstated fare collection and installed barrier shields to protect the riders and drivers. Click HERE for additional information.
National & State Parks
The Barataria Preserve of Jean Lafitte National Historical Park is still closed to visitors.
Grand Isle State Park is open for overnight stays.
Bayou Segnette State Park is open from 8:00 am to 6:00 pm daily for day use, fishing and boating. The pavilions are also available for rental, keeping in mind social distancing recommendations. The cabins and campgrounds have not reopened as of yet.
Kenner Mayor Ben Zahn has issued a proclamation making it mandatory that masks be worn inside all commercial and public buildings.
The emergency proclamation includes the following exemptions:
- Children under the age of 2
- Anyone with a medical condition, mental health condition or disability that limits their ability to wear a mask
- People who are hearing impaired or communicating with someone who is hearing impaired
- Anyone who would face a work-related risk by wearing a mask on the job
- Anyone obtaining a service involving the nose or face that would require the temporary removal of the mask
Gretna will join unincorporated Jefferson Parish and the city of Kenner in requiring people to wear masks when inside commercial and public buildings. The mask mandate will go into effect on Wednesday on July 15th.
As of June 5th, restaurants are allowed to offer dine-in services if they limit indoor table service to 50% of their capacity. We have an updated list of local restaurants open for business HERE.
Louisiana Governor Jon Bel Edwards moved Louisiana into Phase 2 reopening on June 5th. Shopping malls (including food courts) are allowed to be open to the public at 50% of their State Fire Marshal capacity. Shopping centers, boutiques and retailers are taking the necessary steps to ensure a safe and healthy exchange in hopes of providing a bit of “retail therapy.”
Lakeside Shopping Center will reopen on Tuesday, May 19th with reduced mall hours: Monday through Saturday 11 am – 7 pm and Sundays Noon – 6 pm. The Kids’ Castle Play Area will remain closed at this time. The mall food court is open for to-go and curbside. Orders may be placed at the counters, but the dining area is closed. Full details of store openings, as well as existing curbside services, can be found at the shopping center's website.
MSY Travel Ready is a strategic and comprehensive plan that outlines the precautions the airport and its partners are taking to provide a safe and healthy travel journey. This plan is a coordinated effort to adapt airport facilities and operations based on CDC and other health expert recommendations to protect passengers and employees against the spread of COVID-19 and other germs during their time at the airport.
The safety and health of passengers, crew members and staff are top priorities for the Port of New Orleans. They are following the lead of the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to take all precautionary measures necessary. They continue to actively monitor the evolving situation and are in constant communication with public health agencies and industry partners.
WHO's primary role is to direct international health within the United Nations' system and to lead partners in global health responses.
Read more about their Travel Advice and see their official website here.
As the nation's health protection agency, CDC saves lives and protects people from health, safety, and security threats.
Learn more at their website here.
U.S. Travel is the national, non-profit organization representing and advocating for all components of the travel industry. Visit their official website here.
The American Hotel & Lodging Association is an indispensable resource serving, supporting and advocating on behalf of the American hospitality industry. Hotels already follow strict guidelines and protocols designed to help prevent spread of diseases from the flu to less common illnesses, and AHLA will continue to monitor the latest developments tied to this virus issued by government and health officials. Read more here.
Meetings Mean Business is an industry-wide coalition to showcase the undeniable value that business meetings, trade shows, incentive travel, exhibitions, conferences and conventions bring to people, businesses and communities. Visit their website here.
Sports ETA is the non-profit trade association for the sport tourism industry in the United States.
Learn more at their website here.
Due to concerns over COVID-19, the below events have been canceled or postponed throughout Jefferson Parish.
Metairie Road Saint Patrick's Day Parade - March 15, 2020
Louisiana Irish-Italian Parade - March 22, 2020
Gretna Italian-Irish Parade - March 29, 2020
Rivertown Theater's Peter and the Starcatcher
Rivertown Theater's Golden Girls
Rivertown Theater's The Drowsy Chaperone
Teatro Wego! The Complete History of Comedy (unabridged)
Lafreniere Live Spring Concert Series
Cirque du Soleil BAZZAR 
Starry Night at Barataria Preserve - March 20, 2020
Spring in the Swamp at Barataria Preserve - April 10-12, 2020
Kenner Italian Heritage Festival - April 3-5
Grand Isle Migratory Bird Festival - April 17-19
Zurich Classic - April 20-26
Grand Isle Music Festival - June 6
Uncle Sam Jam - July 3
Lagniappe Classic Dog Show - July 30 - August 2, 2020
Due to concerns over COVID-19, some Jefferson Parish hotels have chosen to temporarily close. You can find them HERE. As this is a very fluid situation, we encourage you to check our full lists of hotels HERE and reach out directly.

					Nestled next to our famous neighbor, New Orleans, Jefferson offers a vibrant night life, as well as the quiet serenity of a nature walk. Our communities are comprised historic homes, fishing piers,...
					
						See More


					Go beyond the history of the city of New Orleans and take a more in depth look at the history of the Mississippi River region. Jefferson hugs both the east and west banks of the Mississippi and plays...
					
						See More


					Jefferson Parish restaurants are among Louisiana’s best, offering the freshest ingredients, specialty dishes and friendly staff. Louisiana is known as a culinary epicenter offering a variety of...
					
						See More


					Discover the natural wonders of the Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve. With a unique ecosystem the preserve is a representative example of the delta's environment, containing natural...
					
						See More


					The State of Louisiana maintains a mile of beach front at Grand Isle State Park on the easternmost staying e park looks out toward nearby Grand Terre island, once the lair of the legendary pirate (or...
					
						See More

