Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site453.php


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site484.php




Lafayette Business Recovery Program   Program Overview  |  Information Sheet (.pdf)  In response to economic hardships experienced by small businesses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, Lafayette Consolidated Government (LCG) and Lafayette Economic Development Authority (LEDA) have launched the Lafayette Business Recovery Program to stabilize local businesses and retain/create jobs. LCG is accepting pre-applications in anticipation of receiving HUD funds. Businesses may apply for a forgivable loan or grant of up to $10,000 to assist with up to three months of unpaid costs associated with qualifying business expenses incurred not prior to March 27, 2020—including but not limited to rent, payroll, insurance, benefits, and utilities. Begin your application here.  Do you have questions about the application or the program?  Assistance with the application process will be available beginning Wednesday, June 24 by calling LCG 311 option 2 or (337) 769-4090. Calls are answered Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Messages received before or after hours will be returned. 


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site453.php




COVID-19 Resources for Businesses   It’s vitally important to support local businesses when times are tough. In Lafayette, not only are we facing the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak, we are facing a new oil crunch just as the region is emerging from the 2014 downturn. We all have a role to play in supporting our local businesses and their employees—who are our friends, families and neighbors. We encourage you to support your favorite local retailer, service provider, or other business over the coming weeks and months. Here are resources available to businesses and their employees. We will continue to update this list as we learn more.<<Click here for Resources for Employees>>   What's New  Monday, 7/6: Louisiana Main Street Recovery Program  Monday, 6/22: Lafayette Business Recovery Program  Friday, 6/12: Phase 2 Business Survey  Monday, 6/8: Where to Find Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)   Thursday, 6/4: Phase 2 Proclamation and Business Guidelines  Tuesday, 6/2: Louisiana Moves to Phase 2  Wednesday, 5/27:  PPP Loan Forgiveness Application  Thursday, 5/20: USDA Business and Industry Loan Program   Friday, 5/15: Phase 1 Proclamation and Business Guidelines  Tuesday, 5/12: Louisiana Moves to Phase 1   Tuesday, 5/5: Open Safely   Thursday, 4/30: Governor's Stay at Home Order Extended    Wednesday, 4/29: Safe Shop Guidelines  Wednesday, 4/15: Understanding Financial Assistance for Small Business Webinar   Tuesday, 4/14: Tenants and Landlords Webinar   Friday, 4/10: Louisiana Workforce Commission FAQs   Wednesday, 4/8: SBA Loan Comparison   Tuesday, 4/7: Oil and Gas Impact Webinar with LOGA   Friday, 4/3: SBA Coronavirus Relief Options Thursday, 4/2: Employee Retention Credit Thursday, 4/2: COVID-19 Related Tax Credits for Required Paid Leave Thursday, 4/2: How to Apply for Unemployment Wednesday, 4/1: Louisiana Loan Portfolio Guaranty Program  Wednesday, 4/1: Employment Law Webinar  Wednesday, 4/1: SBA Self Employed Assistance Webinar  Tuesday, 3/31: Updated Paycheck Protection Program Information  Friday, 3/27: Paycheck Protection Program   Friday, 3/27: SBA Approved Louisiana Banks  Friday, 3/27: Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act Friday, 3/27: LED launches Help Line for Louisiana Businesses  Thursday, 3/26: LWC Defers Q1 Unemployment Wage and Tax Reports Wednesday, 3/25: Minor Work Permit Changes Wednesday, 3/25: Independent Contractors and Self Employed eligible for SBA Disaster Loans  Wednesday, 3/25: Families First Coronavirus Response Act  Tuesday, 3/24: SBA Loan Webinar with Heidi Melancon, LSBDC  Tuesday, 3/24: Getting Your Business Ready to Sell Online Webinar  Monday, 3/23:  IRS and Louisiana Department of Revenue Tax Deadlines Extended Monday, 3/23: SBA Loan Applications Open to Louisiana Businesses  Sunday, 3/22: Gov. Edwards Issues Stay at Home Order  Friday, 3/20: Help Wanted: Businesses Hiring Additional Workers  Friday, 3/20: Assistance for Artists, Musicians, and Service Industry Workers  Thursday, 3/19: Recommendations for Business  Wednesday, 3/18: LWC Announces Changes to Unemployment Claims     Lafayette Business Recovery Program  In  response to economic hardships experienced by small businesses  resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, Lafayette Consolidated Government  (LCG) and Lafayette Economic Development Authority (LEDA) have launched  the Lafayette Business Recovery Program to stabilize local businesses  and retain/create jobs. LCG is accepting pre-applications in  anticipation of receiving HUD funds. Businesses  may apply for a forgivable loan or grant of up to $10,000 to assist  with up to three months of costs associated with qualifying business  expenses incurred not prior to March 27, 2020—including but not limited  to rent, payroll, insurance, benefits, and utilities. Begin your application here.  Louisiana Main Street Recovery Program Louisiana small businesses can start applying for up to $15,000 grants on July 28 as part of the Louisiana Main Street Recovery Program. Visit the Main Street website to determine your business's eligibility. To qualify, a business must be based in Louisiana, have suffered an “interruption of business,” be owned at least 50% by Louisiana residents, have filed taxes in 2018, 2019 or will file in 2020, have no more than 50 full-time employees as of March 1, have customers or employees visit a physical location, not be part of a larger business, not exist for the purpose of advancing political activity or lobbying and not derive income from passive investments without “active participation in business operations.” Overview of the program  based on information provided by the Louisiana Department of Treasury   COVID-19 Business Survey Help LEDA and our partners understand how your business is operating during the Phase 2 reopening by completing this short survey. LEDA will gather this information in confidence and aggregate the data to share with local, state and federal sources—allowing them to provide informed and unified assistance to businesses.Since organizations across Acadiana are partnering on one survey, you may receive this link from several sources. Please take the survey only one time.Take the survey here.    Statewide Mask Mandate Issued Effective July 13, Gov. John Bel Edwards announced a mandatory mask requirement  for Louisiana and ordered bars in the state closed to on-premises consumption, as the state experiences increasing spread of COVID-19. The Governor also limited indoor social gatherings like wedding receptions, class reunions and parties to 50 total people. With these additional restrictions, Louisiana remains in Phase Two of the Roadmap for a Resilient Louisiana. Louisiana Remains Phase 2 on June 5   On June 22, Governor Edwards announced Louisiana will remain in Phase 2   for 28 additional days. View the extended order here. The June 4 official order is here. An overview  can be found in this news release.   Businesses that will be able to open at 50 percent occupancy include:  Restaurants, cafes and coffee shops Shopping malls (including food courts, following restaurant guidance) Gyms and fitness centers Barber and beauty shops and nail salons Movie theaters Racetracks (not open to spectators) Museums (including children’s museums), zoos, aquariums (no tactile exhibits) Bars and breweries with LDH food permits Massage  establishments, spas, and tattoo establishments (under strict guidance  from LDH), esthetician services (under strict guidance from the  Cosmetology Board) Pool halls, bowling alleys and skating rinks (children must be accompanied by an adult) Event Centers and wedding venues Outdoor playgrounds and play centers (children must be accompanied by an adult)    The  following businesses remain closed: carnivals, amusement parks, water  parks, fairs, contact sports, children’s indoor play centers, theme  parks, concert and music halls, and other similar businesses. Live  entertainment is not permitted inside any building or indoor function. Download documents related to Phase 1 and Phase 2 opening for specific business types here.   To begin receiving notifications and guidance for safely opening or operating your business, click here  to register at Open Safely. See other official government issued orders and guidelines here.    Safe Shop Guidelines   Effective  April 17, 2020, the Mayor-President of Lafayette Parish enacted a “Safe  Shop” policy for businesses that are not deemed essential OR prohibited  under the Governor’s existing orders. Essential and prohibited business  have existing guidelines that they must adhere to. Safe Shop businesses  are authorized to be open and to operate subject to specific conditions. Get details here.  Open Safely    This site allows you to register your business to receive updated communication, notifications, and helpful guidance via email from the State Fire Marshal’s Office specific to your business type. These notifications will answer the important questions:  When can I partially or fully open my business? What are the steps to open my business? What changes can be expected for businesses that have been operating, but with restrictions? What restrictions are my business subject to, if any? Are there any new sanitation requirements for my business? Are there any personal protective requirements (masks, gloves, etc.) for my employees?  To begin receiving notifications and guidance for safely opening or operating your business, click here  to register. Download documents related to Phase 1 opening for specific business types here.     Safe at Work Framework LEDA, along with 50 business organizations across Louisiana, has endorsed the Safe at Work Framework issued by the Baton Rouge Area Chamber (BRAC) in partnership with the Louisiana Association for Business and Industry (LABI). The Safe at Work Framework lays out a plan that will continue to be modified as new information is gathered from government, business and health officials.  The Louisiana economy has seen job losses top 300,000 with thousands of businesses shuttered entirely. While the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic hit the hospitality, retail, and healthcare sectors the hardest, as time goes on, consumer spending will stall and companies will begin to retain capital and cut costs as they attempt to prepare for an unpredictable future. No industry sector is unaffected. The coronavirus epidemic necessitated an unprecedented shut-down of the economy to manage the virus. While Louisiana is succeeding at “flattening the curve,” the consequence has been staggering job and business losses. Federal aid, combined with state programs, is providing some short-term relief, but it is critical that we restart the economy as soon and as safely possible. Not doing so will have grave economic and health consequences of its own.  Read the full document here.     Resources for Business  Please consult with your banking, accounting, legal or tax professional to determine how these programs may impact your business and employees. Information is subject to change as rules are developed and finalized.  USDA Business and Industry Loan Program  The U.S. Department of Agriculture will soon offer guaranteed loans to help businesses hurt by COVID19. The loans are for: Businesses, public bodies, cooperatives, and nonprofits in rural areasRural areas include towns and cities with 50,000 or fewer populationApproved loan uses include acquisitions, equipment purchases, debt refinancing, job creationLenders include federal and state banks, farm credit banks, and credit unionsInterest and principal payments are deferred for three yearsWhere to find Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 6/8/20 update    SBA Coronavirus Relief Options  In  addition to traditional SBA funding programs, the CARES act established  several new temporary programs to address the COVID-19 outbreak including: Paycheck Protection Program, EIDL Loan Advance, SBA Express Bridge Loans, and SBA Debt Relief. Which program might be best for your business? View a comparison here.   Employee Retention Credit under the CARES Act  The Employee Retention Credit is a fully refundable tax credit for employers equal to 50 percent of qualified wages (including allocable qualified health plan expenses) that Eligible Employers pay their employees. This Employee Retention Credit applies to qualified wages paid after March 12, 2020, and before January 1, 2021. The maximum amount of qualified wages taken into account with respect to each employee for all calendar quarters is $10,000, so that the maximum credit for an Eligible Employer for qualified wages paid to any employee is $5,000. COVID-19-Related Tax Credits for Required Paid Leave  The FFCRA provides businesses with tax credits to cover certain costs of providing employees with required paid sick leave and expanded family and medical leave for reasons related to COVID-19, from April 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020. Louisiana Loan Portfolio Guaranty Program  Louisiana  Loan Portfolio Guaranty Program will offer loans of up to  $100,000 to Louisiana small businesses of fewer than 100 employees that  are impacted by the COVID-19 crisis. To help Main  Street and rural businesses sustain operations, the loans will require  no payments for 180 days and carry below-market interest rates of no  more than 3.5 percent. The Loan Portfolio Guaranty Program, or LPGP, is a partnership of  Louisiana Economic Development, which will provide a loan guaranty fund;  the Louisiana Bankers Association, whose membership will provide the  loans; and the Louisiana Public Facilities Authority,  which will administer the program. A total loan pool of $50 million  will be quickly disbursed to eligible small businesses across Louisiana.  Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act  |  FAQs     The   Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security  (CARES) Act provides economic assistance to workers, families, and small businesses. This document   provides a high-level summary of the individual, workforce, small business, revenue, and education provisions contained within H.R. 748, which passed the Senate on Wednesday, March 25th. The full legislative text of the CARES Act will be posted on Congress.gov and will be accessible by searching H.R. 748. Information about Economic Impact Payments to individuals is here.   Paycheck Protection Program    The   Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security  (CARES) Act, enacted on   March 27, 2020, includes a key provision—the  Paycheck Protection   Program—that expands the U.S. Small Business  Administration’s (SBA)   existing 7(a) loan program. The program  provides $349 billion for small   businesses to cover near-term  operating expenses and keep their   employees. Sole  proprietors, independent contractors, gig economy workers, and  self-employed individuals  are also eligible for the Paycheck Protection  Program. Applications for small businesses and self-employed individuals/independent contractors are being accepted through commercial lenders. Applicants can apply for the Economic Injury Disaster Loan  and the Paycheck Protection Program if there are different uses of  proceeds for each loan. Funds from the loans cannot be co-mingled.   PPP Overview and Information from U.S. Department of Treasury PPP Frequently Asked Questions (.pdf) Interim Final Rule (.pdf)  Interim Final Rule with Additional Eligibility Criteria and Requirements (.pdf): Self-Employed information begins on page 4  PPP Lender Information from U.S. Department of Treasury (.pdf)   PPP Borrower Information from U.S. Department of Treasury (.pdf)   PPP Borrower Application (.pdf)   |  Find a lender*NEW* PPP Loan Forgiveness Application (.pdf)*NEW* PPP Loan Forgiveness Interim Final Rule (.pdf)     Families First Coronavirus Response Act  The Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) requires certain employers to provide employees with paid sick or family leave for specified reasons related to COVID-19. The act went into effect on April 1, 2020 and provides for paid leave under the Emergency Paid Leave Act   and the Emergency Family Medical Leave Expansion Act.    U.S. Small Business Administration Economic Injury Disaster Loans  The U.S. Small Business Administration is offering designated states and   territories low-interest federal disaster loans for working capital to   small businesses suffering substantial economic injury as a result of   the Coronavirus (COVID-19). SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loans      offer up to $2 million in assistance for each affected small  business.  These loans can provide vital economic support to small  businesses to  help overcome the temporary loss of revenue they are  experiencing.    Learn more about applying for an SBA Economic Injury Disaster Loan.  Independent Contractors, Self Employed, Sole Proprietors are eligible to apply for SBA Disaster Loans. Small Business Administration SBA Coronavirus Relief Options   Check the status of your loan application by calling 1-800-659-2955.    COVID-19 Help Wanted LEDA launched www.lafayette.org/helpwanted  to identify businesses hiring additional workers to meet customer  demand during the COVID-19 public health emergency. If your business is  hiring, let us know the details by emailing our Workforce Development team. Louisiana Workforce Commission  |  Frequently Asked Questions 4/10/20   For Employers: Louisiana Workforce Commission (LWC) Guidance for Employers  |  FAQs for Employers    If you are temporarily closing or reducing your hours of operations due  to COVID-19, please contact the LWC to discuss how they can provide  assistance and answer your questions about unemployment insurance and  other programs and resources available. Contact LWC by email  with your unemployment insurance questions. Be sure to provide your  company’s name, a point of contact, telephone number and email address,  as well as specifics on the assistance you are requesting. Louisiana  employers will not be impacted by unemployment benefits paid to workers  due to COVID‐19. Governor John Bel Edwards issued proclamation (JBE  2020‐27) to relieve employers of benefit charges associated with  COVID‐19. This means that any unemployment benefits workers collect as a  result of the pandemic will not be charged to individual employer UI  tax accounts. FAQs     Q: How do I make the State aware I am bringing an employee back from a lay off or work reduction?    A: Complete the New Hire Form for rehires on the Department of Children and Family Services website. This helps identify those who continue drawing benefits after returning to work. Q: How do I make the State aware that I attempted to bring an employee back, but they refused?    A: Refusal of work issues should be reported through the File a Separation Notice on a Former Employee  (Form 77). Select “File Employee Separation Notice” under Employer Services. You may indicate "quit-refusal of work" for each employee who does not return to work. Q: What do I do if I find out that one of my workers is continuing to file for unemployment benefits although they have returned to work or I am paying them from a PPP loan?    A: If someone is drawing benefits while being paid and not reporting those wages to LWC, this should be reported here.     Minor Work Permits  In response to the current COVID-19 event, pursuant to La. R.S. 23:184.1 the Louisiana Workforce Commission will begin issuing 60 day blanket Employment Certificates for employers desiring to employ minors in the State of Louisiana. Employers desiring to obtain an Employment Certificate pursuant to this memorandum must submit via email a completed and signed “Application to Employ Minors under 18” along with proof of age. Incomplete applications will not be processed. Employers should allow three (3) days for processing. Deferral Announced for 2020 1Q Unemployment Wage and Tax Reports  Louisiana Workforce Commission (LWC) announced the deadline for first quarter 2020 wage and tax reports will be deferred to June 30, 2020. The LWC previously announced that it was granting Louisiana employers a temporary deferral from paying their first quarter 2020 unemployment taxes until June 30. The latest deferral now makes both the wage and tax reports and the 1Q 2020 unemployment tax payment due at the same time, rather than having an earlier deadline for wage and tax report submissions. Louisiana Department of Revenue    The Louisiana Department of Revenue have made extensions to several required filings. The latest information on extensions and deadlines can be found here.   IRS Coronavirus Tax Relief   As  part of the federal government's response to the Coronavirus crisis, the Internal Revenue Service issued guidance allowing all individual tax  filers to defer up to $1 million of federal income tax (including self-employment tax) payments originally due on April 15 until July 15  without penalties or interest. Similarly, the new deadline for corporate  tax payments up to $10 million is also July 15. Louisiana Economic Development Louisiana   Economic Development (LED) is currently monitoring the impact of the   novel coronavirus COVID-19. LED is focusing on business continuity aimed   at safeguarding economic, as well as physical health. This information   is in addition to that found on the Governor’s website; it will focus  on  useful resources and information for businesses and individuals.        LED Help Desk for Louisiana Businesses    Louisiana Economic Development has opened a help  desk that provides email and hotline support for Louisiana businesses  impacted by COVID-19. For COVID-19 business questions, LED may be reached at LEDbiz@la.gov  or via the toll-free hotline, (833) 457-0531. The COVID-19 hotline is  staffed from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday. Be aware that high  call volumes might result in delays. Callers are encouraged to keep  trying, leave a voice mail or contact LED via email. Resources for Restaurants   The LRA.org website has information for restaurants to make fact-based decisions during the COVID-19 event. The  site has links for employers, employees, and links to interim work  opportunities for those facing decreased work opportunities. Acadiana Business Resource WebinarsTo  support Acadiana's business community – particularly our small  businesses – LEDA and our partners will host a series of webinars on  timely and relevant topics related to the COVID-19 public health  emergency.Click here to see scheduled webinars, slides and recorded video. Guidance for BusinessResources, guidance, and information available for businesses and workers.   Services for BusinessLearn about various free or discounted services for business, including communication services and educational opportunities.   Resources for Employees   Get the latest information on various programs in place to assist employees impacted by the COVID-19 public health emergency.  Programs include:  Louisiana Workforce Commission: Unemployment Claims  LEDA Virtual Job Fair COVID-19 Help Wanted Families First Coronavirus Response ActSupplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)  Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP) LA Wallet LPSS Minor Work Permits Resources for Restaurant Workers Assistance for Artists, Musicians, and Service Industry Workers   Federal Housing Finance Agency    Additional Resources and Information  Local 232-HELP 311 Lafayette Acadiana Center for the Arts  Acadiana VOAD   City of Broussard   City of Carencro   City of Scott   City of Youngsville  Community Foundation of Acadiana: Acadiana Disaster Response Fund   Downtown Lafayette    Lafayette Consolidated Government Lafayette Convention and Visitors Commission   Lafayette Parish School System   One Acadiana  South Louisiana Community College   Town of Duson   UL Lafayette United Way of Acadiana    State Office of the Governor Louisiana Association of Business and Industry Louisiana Business Emergency Operations Center (LABEOC)  |  Helpful Links from BEOC   Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services Louisiana Department of Corrections  Louisiana Department of Education  Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality  Louisiana Department of Health Coronavirus Dashboard  Louisiana Department of Transportation & Development  Louisiana Office of Motor Vehicles Louisiana Workforce CommissionPublic Affairs Research Council of Louisiana FederalCoronavirus.gov Center for Disease Control Department of Health and Human Services  Department of Homeland Security/FEMA  Department of the Treasury Small Business Administration   Local News Sources KATC  KLFY  KADN  The Daily Advertiser  Acadiana Advocate  The Current  Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site476.php




Safe Shop Guidelines for Lafayette Parish   Effective April 17, 2020, the Mayor-President of Lafayette Parish enacted a “Safe Shop” policy for businesses that are not deemed essential OR prohibited under the Governor’s existing orders. Essential and prohibited business have existing guidelines they must adhere to. Safe Shop businesses are authorized to be open and to operate subject to the following conditions:  All employees must wear masks   Employees may not work if they have a fever or symptoms     Customers must maintain a minimum of 6 feet of separation when shopping or standing in line   Maximum of 25% occupancy, as determined by code and the Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Fire Marshal   No congregating or groups loitering in or near businesses   Customers who have fever or symptoms should be barred from the business  These rules are consistent with the Governor’s existing emergency orders and represent a manageable risk profile, consistent with social distancing guidelines. This guidance may be withdrawn if there is a spike in either hospital admissions or reported cases of COVID. Violations come with a $500 fine and/or up to 6 months in the parish jail. Violating businesses may also have their power shut off. Businesses that do not have a way to count customers and determine six feet between shoppers are encouraged to not open until they are able to do so.  The Hanes Corporation donated reusable, washable masks to Lafayette Parish which are being distributed by Lafayette Consolidated Government (LCG) and LEDA. These masks will be provided to Lafayette Parish businesses for use by their employees. The masks will allow businesses to follow the Safe Shop Policy. LCG and LEDA have partnered with the Mayors of each municipality to distribute these masks to local businesses.   For more information call 311 and press 2 or (337) 769-4090, Monday to Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.    Louisiana Moves to Phase 1 on May 15 On May 11, Governor Edwards announced Louisiana will move into Phase  1 reopening on May 15. The official order is here.   An overview can be found in this news release.  New types of businesses that may open beginning on May 15, with 25 percent occupancy limits, sanitation guidelines and spacing for physical distancing include: Interior stores at enclosed mallsGyms and fitness centersBarber shops and hair and nail salonsCasinos and Video PokerTheatersRacetracks (not open to spectators)Museums, zoos, aquariums (no tactile exhibits)Bars and breweries with LDH food permits  The following businesses remain closed: massage establishments and spas, tattoo parlors, carnivals, amusement parks, water parks, trampoline parks, arcades, fairs, bars and breweries without LDH food permits, pool halls, contact sports, children’s play centers, playgrounds, theme parks, adult entertainment venues, and other similar businesses.Download documents related to Phase 1 opening for specific business types here.  To begin receiving notifications and guidance for safely opening or operating your business, click here  to register at Open Safely.See other official government issued orders and guidelines here.  Statewide Stay at Home Order Issued   On April 30, Governor Edwards formally extended the Stay at Home Order through May 15. Get details here.   View the full order here.  Three major changes in the new Stay at Home Order include:   Malls will remain closed to the public, but stores may open for curbside delivery.Restaurants will be allowed to open their outside areas for patrons to eat meals only, without tableside service.All employees of a business who have contact with the public must wear a mask. Can your business open? Find out here. State Fire Marshal Interpretive Memorandum  regarding Restaurant/Food Service Outdoor Seating Criteria (4/28/20) Gov.   John Bel Edwards issued a statewide Stay at Home order which goes into   effect Monday, March 23, at 5:00 p.m., to limit movements outside of  the home beyond essential needs and essential work as outlined in the  order. View the full order here to see a list of prohibited businesses. Examples of essential workers as defined by the  Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), can be found here and here. Lafayette Mayor-President Guillory's Stay at Home proclamation is here.   See other official government issued orders and guidelines here.  Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site454.php




Small Business Administration Economic Injury Disaster Loan   The  U.S. Small Business Administration  is offering designated states and  territories low-interest federal disaster loans for working capital to small businesses suffering substantial economic injury as a result of  the Coronavirus (COVID-19). SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loans   offer up to $2 million in assistance for each affected small business. These loans can provide vital economic support to small businesses to  help overcome the temporary loss of revenue they are experiencing.   Apply online  |  Check the status of your loan application by calling 1-800-659-2955.    SBA Coronavirus Relief Options  In addition to traditional SBA funding programs, the CARES act established several new temporary programs to address the COVID-19 outbreak.  Paycheck Protection Program EIDL Loan Advance SBA Express Bridge Loans SBA Debt Relief  Which program might be best for your business? View a comparison here.     SBA Approved Louisiana Banks (preferred lender list as of 3/27/20)  Find a local Paycheck Protection Program Lender   Need assistance? LSBDC at University of Louisiana at Lafayette  |  (337) 482-6312  |  lsbdc.ull@lsbdc.org       Are you an independent contractor or self employed? You can apply! Get details here.  Please consult with your banking, accounting, legal or tax  professional to determine how these programs may impact your business  and employees. Information is subject to change as rules are developed  and finalized.     Webinar: Understanding Financial Assistance for Small Business Due to COVID-19 Disruptions (4/15/20)  Presenter: Heidi Melancon, Louisiana Small Business Development Center (LSBDC) at UL Lafayette  An overview of programs available to small businesses including the Small Business Administration's Paycheck Protection Protection and Economic Injury Disaster Loan, the Louisiana Loan Portfolio Guaranty Program, and the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance Program. Learn about the programs, who is eligible, how to apply, and when to expect assistance.   Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site473.php




SBA Loan ComparisonThe following graphics were based on information presented  by the SBA on 4/7/20.         Back to SBA Loan page  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site462.php




Programs for Independent Contractors, Self Employed and Sole Proprietors   Applying for Unemployment Insurance Benefits  Self-employed, independent contractors, 1099, and gig workers are eligible to receive Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation as outlined by the CARES Act. Get details here.  Please consult with your banking, accounting, legal or tax   professional to determine how these programs may impact you. Information is subject to change as rules are developed   and finalized. SBA Coronavirus Relief Options  In  addition to traditional SBA funding programs, the CARES act established  several new temporary programs to address the COVID-19 outbreak.   Paycheck Protection Program EIDL Loan Advance SBA Express Bridge Loans SBA Debt Relief  Which program might be best for your business? View a comparison here.   Paycheck Protection Program      The   Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, enacted on   March 27, 2020, includes a key provision—the Paycheck Protection   Program—that expands the U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBA)   existing 7(a) loan program. The program provides $349 billion for small   businesses to cover near-term operating expenses and keep their   employees.  Sole proprietors, independent contractors, gig economy workers, and self-employed individuals are all eligible for the Paycheck Protection Program. Applications will be accepted beginning April 10 through a commercial lender.   PPP Overview and Information from U.S. Department of Treasury (.pdf)   PPP Frequently Asked Questions (.pdf) Interim Final Rule (.pdf) Interim Final Rule with Additional Eligibility Criteria and Requirements (.pdf) : Self-Employed information begins on page 4 PPP Lender Information from U.S. Department of Treasury (.pdf)    PPP Borrower Information from U.S. Department of Treasury (.pdf)   PPP Borrower Application (.pdf)     |  Find a lender     Small business applicants can apply for Economic Injury Disaster Loans and the Paycheck Protection Program if there are different uses of proceeds for each loan. Funds from the loans cannot be co-mingled.   SBA Economic Injury Disaster Loan  The  U.S. Small Business Administration   is offering designated states and  territories low-interest federal  disaster loans for working capital to small businesses suffering  substantial economic injury as a result of  the Coronavirus (COVID-19).  SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loans   offer up to $2 million in  assistance for each affected small business. These loans can provide  vital economic support to small businesses to  help overcome the  temporary loss of revenue they are experiencing.   Apply online  |  Check the status of your loan application by calling 1-800-659-2955.    Do you need assistance with your loan application?  LSBDC at University of Louisiana at Lafayette |  (337) 482-6312  |  lsbdc.ull@lsbdc.org  SBA Economic Injury Disaster Loan Basics (3/24/20)   Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site477.php




Government Issued Orders and Guidance Statewide Mask Mandate Issued Effective July 13, Gov. John Bel Edwards announced a mandatory mask requirement   for Louisiana and ordered bars in the state closed to on-premises  consumption, as the state experiences increasing spread of COVID-19. The  Governor also limited indoor social gatherings like wedding receptions,  class reunions and parties to 50 total people. With these additional  restrictions, Louisiana remains in Phase Two of the Roadmap for a  Resilient Louisiana.State Remains in Phase 2 On June 22, Governor Edwards announced Louisiana will remain in Phase 2   for an additional 28 days. View the extended order here.  The June 4 official order is here. An overview can be found in this news release.  Businesses that will be able to open at 50 percent occupancy include:  Restaurants, cafes and coffee shops Shopping malls (including food courts, following restaurant guidance) Gyms and fitness centers Barber and beauty shops and nail salons Movie theaters Racetracks (not open to spectators) Museums (including children’s museums), zoos, aquariums (no tactile exhibits) Bars and breweries with LDH food permits Massage establishments, spas, and tattoo establishments (under strict guidance from LDH), esthetician services (under strict guidance from the Cosmetology Board) Pool halls, bowling alleys and skating rinks (children must be accompanied by an adult) Event Centers and wedding venues Outdoor playgrounds and play centers (children must be accompanied by an adult)  The following businesses remain closed: carnivals, amusement parks, water parks, fairs, contact sports, children’s indoor play centers, theme parks, concert and music halls, and other similar businesses. Live entertainment is not permitted inside any building or indoor function.Download documents related to Phase 1 and Phase 2 opening for specific business types here. Phase 1 On May 11, Governor Edwards announced Louisiana will move into Phase 1 reopening on May 15. The official order is here.  An overview can be found in this news release. New types of businesses that may open beginning on May 15, with 25 percent occupancy limits, sanitation guidelines and spacing for physical distancing include:    Interior stores at enclosed malls  Gyms and fitness centers Barber shops and hair and nail salons Casinos and Video Poker Theaters Racetracks (not open to spectators) Museums, zoos, aquariums (no tactile exhibits) Bars and breweries with LDH food permits     The following businesses remain closed: massage establishments and spas, tattoo parlors, carnivals, amusement parks, water parks, trampoline parks, arcades, fairs, bars and breweries without LDH food permits, pool halls, contact sports, children’s play centers, playgrounds, theme parks, adult entertainment venues, and other similar businesses. Download documents related to Phase 1 opening for specific business types here.   Stay at Home Order Extended On April 30, Governor Edwards formally extended the Stay at Home Order through May 15. Get details here.    View the full order here.  Three major changes in the new Stay at Home Order include:      Malls will remain closed to the public, but stores may open for curbside delivery. Restaurants will be allowed to open their outside areas for patrons to eat meals only, without tableside service. All employees of a business who have contact with the public must wear a mask.  Can your business open? Find out here. State Fire Marshal Interpretive Memorandum  regarding Restaurant/Food Service Outdoor Seating Criteria (4/28/20)  Open Safely    This  site allows you to register your business to receive updated communication, notifications, and helpful  guidance via email from the State Fire Marshal’s Office specific to your  business type.     Louisiana Department of Health issued a revised order for medical and  surgical procedures which will go into effect on Monday, April 27. Get details here. Read the order here.      Lafayette Parish Safe Shop Guidelines  from Lafayette Consolidated Government.    Lafayette Mayor-President Guillory's Stay at Home proclamation is here.  Stay at Home Order Issued Gov.   John Bel Edwards  issued a statewide Stay at Home order   which went into   effect Monday,  March 23, at 5:00 p.m., to limit  movements outside of  the home beyond  essential needs and essential  work as outlined in the  order.     View the  full order here to see a list of prohibited businesses.  Examples of essential workers as defined by the  Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), can be found here and here.   Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site457.php




 To support Acadiana's business community – particularly our small businesses – LEDA and our partners are hosting a series of webinars on timely and relevant topics related to the COVID-19 public health emergency.    Scheduled Webinars  Check back for upcoming events.  Previously Recorded Webinars  Louisiana Main Street Recovery Program (7/7/20) Getting the Most of the the PPP (6/10/20) New Skills, New Opportunities: A Conversation with Higher Ed Leaders (5/19/20) Getting Back to Work Safely (5/12/20) Rethinking Business: Forging a New Path in the Wake of COVID-19 (4/28/20)  Louisiana's Tourism Economy Post COVID-19 (4/21/20)   Understanding Financial Assistance for Small Business Due to COVID-19 Disruptions (4/15/20)  COVID-19 Issues Facing Landlords & Tenants (4/14/20) COVID-19 Impacts on the Oil & Gas Industry (4/7/20)   COVID-19 Assistance for Self-Employed Individuals and Others (3/31/20)  Managing Your Workforce in Response to COVID-19–Employment Law Implications (3/31/20)   Federal Response and What it Means for Small Businesses (3/27/20)  Getting Your Business Ready to Sell Online (3/24/20)    Disaster Loans and Other SBA Resources (3/24/20)   Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site461.php




Families First Coronavirus Response Act  The Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA)  requires certain employers to provide employees with paid sick or family leave for specified reasons related to COVID-19. The act went into effect on April 1, 2020 and provides for paid leave under the Emergency Paid Leave Act and the Emergency Family and Medical Leave Expansion Act. Please consult with your legal counsel to determine how these acts may impact your business and employees. The information presented below is based on what is available as of April 1, 2020. Updates will be made as rules are finalized.    FFCRA Questions & Answers  For Employers: Employee Rights Poster  |  FFCRA Notice FAQ  |  Temporary Non-Enforcement Period    COVID-19-Related Tax Credits for Required Paid Leave  The FFCRA provides businesses with tax credits to cover certain costs of  providing employees with required paid sick leave and expanded family  and medical leave for reasons related to COVID-19, from April 1, 2020,  through December 31, 2020. For Employees: Employee Rights Poster  |  Employee Rights    Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act (EPSLA)   Covered Employees: All employees Covered  Employers: Employers with fewer than 500 employees.  Amount of Leave: Up to 80 hours for full time employees and variable for part-time  The  Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act sets forth six covered reasons qualifying  for paid sick leave and a corresponding rate of pay for the employee  and a cap on payments to the employees depending on the reason for  leave:     Covered Reason for Leave   Rate of Pay   Cap on Payments     (1) The employee is subject to a Federal, State, or local   quarantine or isolation order related to COVID–19   The employee’s regular rate of pay (as determined under   section 7(e) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29   U.S.C. 207(e)).   $511 per day and $5,110 in the aggregate     (2) The employee has been advised by a health care   provider to self-quarantine due to concerns related to COVID–19   The employee’s regular rate of pay (as determined under   section 7(e) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29   U.S.C. 207(e)).   $511 per day and $5,110 in the aggregate     (3) The employee is experiencing symptoms of COVID–19 and   seeking a medical diagnosis.   The employee’s regular rate of pay (as determined under section   7(e) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29   U.S.C. 207(e)).   $511 per day and $5,110 in the aggregate     (4)  The employee is caring for an individual who is   subject to an order  as described in subparagraph (1) or has been advised as   described in  paragraph (2).   Two-thirds of the employee’s regular rate of pay.   $200 per day and $2,000 in the aggregate     (5)  The employee is caring for a son or daughter of such   employee if the  school or place of care of the son or daughter has been   closed, or the  child care provider of such son or daughter is unavailable,   due to  COVID–19 precautions.   Two-thirds of the employee’s regular rate of pay.   $200 per day and $2,000 in the aggregate     (6)  The employee is experiencing any other substantially   similar  condition specified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in    consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of  Labor.   Two-thirds of the employee’s regular rate of pay.   $200 per day and $2,000 in the aggregate      Employers cannot require employees to use any other leave prior to using the Emergency Paid Sick Leave. Emergency Family and Medical Leave Expansion Act  |  Q&A   Eligible employees: An employee who has been employed for at least 30 calendar daysCovered employers: An employer with fewer than 500 employeesQualified reasons for paid FMLA leave: Provides up to 12 weeks of paid leave at a reduced rate to care for a child whose school or childcare provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to COVID-19.Amount of paid leave:    First 10 days may be unpaid (but employee may use other paid leaves during this time)Paid at no less than two-thirds of the employee’s regular rate of pay (as determined by the FLSA) and the number of hours the employee would normally be scheduled to work for up to 12 weeksPaid leave shall not exceed $200 per day and $10,000 in the aggregate Reinstatement rights:  Employees are entitled to reinstatement to the same position or an equivalent position, unless the employer employs fewer than 25 employees. In that case, the employer must make reasonable efforts to provide the employee with a position or an equivalent position for one year after the “public health emergency concludes” or 12 weeks after commencement of the leave, whichever is earlier. Exclusions: The Secretary of Labor has authority to issue regulations for good cause to exclude certain health care providers and emergency responders, and to exempt small businesses with few than 50 employees if requirements would “jeopardize the viability of the business as a going concern.” Details are still to be finalized. The Act provides payroll tax credits granted to employers to offset the costs associated with these employer-provided mandates.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site455.php




Services for Business  Meero: A file transfer service is offering free large-file transfers to ease remote working. No account needed and all files created between now and June 2020 will be kept active for three months.   OneDine:  A pioneer in guest-side technology solutions for the restaurant and hospitality industries, OneDine is offering a free Tap & Pay Touchless Payment system to restaurants during the COVID-19 crisis. They are offering free setup, free table sensors for tap and pay activity, as well as waiving all transaction fees. The technology integrates with most current POS systems. (A restaurant would only be responsible for third party credit card fees.)    Microsoft Teams Freemium  version which includes unlimited chat, built-in group and one-on-one audio or video calling, 10 GB of team file storage, and 2 GB of personal file storage per user. You also get real-time collaboration with the Office apps for web, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote.    Jamm:  An audio-visual communication tool used by remote and distributed teams is offering it free of change for the foreseeable future. You can quickly record videos or do a live call with your team. It also integrates with Slack.  Cisco is providing free unlimited use of Webex for web conferencing.   Google has also made their video conferencing service, Hangouts Meet, available for all G-suite customers until July 1, 2020. Hangouts Meet allows for up to 250 participants and live steaming to up to 100,000 viewers per domain. You can also record and save meetings.   Linkedin  has 16 free courses set up for business owners Remote Working: Setting Yourself and Your Teams Up for Success.  Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site459.php




Guidance for Business Postlethwaite & Netterville  is providing businesses with a dashboard of helpful resources  including the most current information on federal legislation and IRS  updates. As you look to pass accurate information to your workers and make  important decisions regarding business operations, a good place to start  is with the CDC’s recommended business strategies, which include: Actively encourage sick employees to stay home.Separate sick employees.Emphasize staying home when sick, respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene by all employees.Perform routine environmental cleaning.Advise employees before traveling to take certain steps. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has made resources, guidance, and information available for American  businesses and workers.  Coronavirus Response Toolkit Resilience in a Box: portal offering preparedness tips and information about best practices  for small business Coronavirus Guidance for Employers Workplace Tips for Employees  Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site329.php




Market ResearchMarket research is critical to understanding the viability of any business venture. Whether you are evaluating your customer's preferences or analyzing your competition, we have the resources to help.Download our Economic Profile            for an overview of Lafayette, LA's economy or proceed to one of the areas listed below:Statistics Demographics & Standard Reports Business Databases Maps  Available real estate   Online resource guide (for self-guided research) If you need assistance in gathering data for your business plan or expansion efforts please contact LEDA's Market Intelligence department. 





Name:(required)




Company Name if applicable:




Phone Number:(required)




Email Address:(required)




Optimal Request Completion Date:(required)



To better meet your needs, please describe the nature of your request below.






Requested Data:

 Demographics
 Competitive Info
 Traffic Counts
 Business Listing
 Customized Map
 Industry Research



If you would like information specific to the address of your proposed or existing business please enter the address below.

Location of Proposed/Existing Business:




 



















Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site330.php




Finding a Location   We understand that positioning your business involves more than just finding an available space; it also encompasses perception, feasibility, efficiency and many other variables that differ across industries. Having a better idea of the variables that are most important to your business operations allows researchers to tailor, combine, and cross reference multiple data sets in order to produce an accurate analysis of your target market or location of interest. Visit our Map Center  for access to available propertiesLafayette is also home to many talented commercial real estate agents: Acadiana Metro RealtyBeau Box Commercial Real EstateBilleaud CompaniesCecil D. Trahan Enterprises, Inc.Century 21 Gateway Realty Champion Real EstateColdwell Banker - Pelican Real Estate Dwight Andrus Real EstateGulf States Real Estate ServicesKeaty Real EstateKeller WilliamsLatter and BlumMirian Investment Group MPW PropertiesOld South Realty Property ManagementProfessional Advantage Realty (PAR) Property OneRe/Max AcadianaRon J. Gaubert, RealtorsRPI GroupSam Robertson Real EstateScout Real Estate Co. Southwest GroupSpectrum Real EstateStirling PropertiesTeal Realty & DevelopmentTrahan Real Estate Group Van Eaton and RomeroAlso, view buildings  and sites  on the Louisiana Site Selection Center's website. Having trouble finding what you're looking for? Email our business recruitment staff to assist you in putting together a property search based on your company's requirements. 


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site331.php




Licenses & Permits Prior to obtaining licensing information, we suggest that you contact the LA Small Business Development Center (LSBDC) located nearest you for assistance with management, financing and business plan development.  Seminars and workshops are also provided. The Lafayette office is located at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, and can be located by calling (337) 262-5344. Business License:To assist businesses in lowering their overall cost of doing business, Lafayette Consolidated Government has eliminated business licenses. Professional and Occupational License: Specific occupations require licensing to ensure the health, welfare and safety of customers. A list of professions and contact information for the regulatory authorities can be found here .  Don't know where to start? View the License and Permit Flowchart  for guidance.    State Sales Tax I.D Number   Department of Revenue and Taxation      P. O. Box 3863      Baton Rouge, LA 70821      (225) 219-7356 Department of Revenue and Taxation Regional Office:      Lafayette - (337) 262-5455 Local Sales Tax I.D. Number   Lafayette Parish School Board - Sales Tax Division207 Town Center Parkway Ste 101Lafayette, LA 70506(337)521-7355    Certificate of Occupancy     Every business must be licensed with the city which includes a $100 fee. All building permits, inspections, etc., are also done through this office  Department of Development and Planning      Lafayette Consolidated Government      (337) 291-8431 LCG Licensing Information     Unemployment Insurance    LA Workforce Commission Office of Workforce Development      P. O. Box 94094      Baton Rouge, LA 70804      (225) 342-3111 Application Information  LA Workforce Commission Development Regional Office:      Lafayette - (337) 262-5511   Louisiana Secretary of State  SOS Business Services   Telephone: (225) 925-4704      Fax: (225) 922-5314  Planning, Construction & Zoning Permits    Lafayette Consolidated Government      Department of Development and Planning      220 West Willow St, Bldg B      Lafayette, LA  70501      Telephone: (337) 291-8000   


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site328.php




Business Incentives   Lafayette, LA is a business-friendly environment, where leaders work together to ensure the success and prosperity of our community and our business base. There are several resources available in Louisiana that can give businesses that operate here an advantage. Below is a partial list of business incentives that are available. For more information, contact Mark D. Mouton, LEDA’s Director of Business Retention and Expansion.   Local Incentives  Restoration Tax Abatement Grants a 5-year deferred assessment of the ad valorem property taxes assessed on renovations and improvements with an option for a second 5-year exemption to Commercial property owners and homeowners who expand, restore, improve, or develop an existing structure in a qualifying district. Administered by the Lafayette Parish Tax Assessor.   Industrial Property Tax Exemption Provides new and expanding manufacturing operations with an exemption of local property taxes on new construction or additions to existing buildings and/or the purchase of permanently fixed equipment and machinery for a period of 5 years (with an additional 5 year option).   State Incentives  NOTE: A number of these programs require an Advanced Notification form             and fee be submitted to Louisiana Economic Development (LED) prior to any          construction, renovations, purchases, hiring of employees, etc. If you fail to       submit this Advanced Notification, you will not be eligible to participate in    the program(s). To find out more about the requirements, please click here.          Electronically file your Advanced Notification by registering with   FastLane. Quality Jobs  Provides a cash rebate as an incentive to encourage Louisiana Vision 2020 traditional and seed clusters industries to locate and/or expand existing Louisiana operations by creating quality jobs and promoting economic development. A construction project, combined with jobs creation, may result in a sales/use tax rebate or investment tax credit.    Enterprise Zone A jobs incentive program that provides Louisiana Income and Franchise tax credits to a business hiring a minimum number of net new full-time employees. Fifty percent of these new jobs must be filled from one of four targeted groups. A business does not have to be investing money, just creating additional jobs. A construction project, combined with jobs creation, may result in a sales/use tax rebate or investment tax credit.  Industrial Property Tax Exemption Incentive Louisiana's original incentive program, for capital investments, and is for manufacturers only (as identified by the federal government with NAICS codes that begin with 31, 32 or 33). It may be used by manufacturers new to the State as well as new investments and miscellaneous capital additions to existing facilities in Louisiana.   Modernization Tax Credit Program Provides 5% refundable state tax credit for manufacturers making capital investment to modernize or upgrade existing facilities in Louisiana.   


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site446.php




LEDA Education Sessions     The Lafayette Economic Development Authority (LEDA) hosts a series of education sessions for businesses to learn about programs, incentives, resources, and tools to start, grow or relocate in the area. These sessions are open to businesses of any size in any industry sector. The LEDA Education Sessions are held from 8:15 to 10:00 a.m.  8:15 a.m.: Registration and Networking  8:30 a.m.: Program  9:30 a.m: Q and A   LEDA Resource Center 211 E. Devalcourt St.  Lafayette, LA 70506  Register at https://ledaeducationsessions.eventbrite.com  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site314.php




Business Expansion and OutreachLEDA understands that a large percentage of a community's economic growth is generated by existing businesses. To foster this growth and maintain a healthy business climate, LEDA developed an outreach/visitation program to build strong relationships through an ongoing and confidential dialogue with business leaders, decision makers, and influencers in Lafayette Parish and Acadiana. LEDA works closely with businesses to: Gather information about company concerns, economic concerns, and challenges within the business, industry, or communityLearn about a company's goals and objectives, products and services, and customers and suppliersIdentify common issues or barriers and address concernsEducate businesses about programs and resources to assist with potential growth and expansionLEDA will meet with businesses from all sectors, of all sizes, whether starting, expanding or relocating a business.  We are here to connect your business enterprise with programs or resources for entrepreneurship and small business development; business expansion and job growth; workforce development; market development; innovation training and process improvement.Our meetings are confidential conversations about the past, present and future plans for your business.  The services provided by LEDA are free and confidential.  Some services offered by LEDA include expansion resources, permit requirements, site selection, workforce development, training, networking and more.   The objective of the outreach-visitation program is to better understand the business environment to improve the economic well-being and quality of life for our community by acting on the information received from local business leaders.  The mission of the program is to foster job growth, maintain a healthy business climate and build a stronger business community for new and existing businesses.I would like to schedule a outreach/visitation meeting with your organization.   We would love to meet with you.  Request a visit with LEDA using the form below. 





First & Last Name:(required)




Business Name (if applicable):(required)




Date Requested:(required)




Email Address:(required)




Phone Number with Area Code:(required)




Interested in the following (select all that apply):

 LEDA Services
 Entrepreneurship/Start-up Business programs
 Small Business / Development programs
 Business Expansion programs
 International Trade (Export / Import assistance)
 Workforce Development /Training Programs
 Lean Manufacturing / Process Improvement
 Software / Digital Media Programs
 Finance and Capital
 Real Estate and Site Selection 




Comments::




 



















Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site430.php




 Business Recruitment and Relocation  Are you considering a relocation of your existing business? Are you concerned with the process and do not know where to turn? The Lafayette Economic Development Authority offers many services that can assist your relocating needs.  LEDA’s Business Recruitment department is the conduit through which businesses are able to make a successful entry into the Lafayette market. Through diligent research and active marketing approaches, we seek to recruit new businesses to the region and assist in stimulating the local and regional economy through opportunities for external trade and investment. This department provides information to businesses and consultants considering Lafayette as a new location for a business. Our clients include site selectors, commercial real estate agents, business owners and/or high-level management.  Finding a Location: We understand that positioning your business involves more than just finding an available space— it also encompasses perception, feasibility, efficiency and many other variables that differ across industries. Having a better idea of the variables that are most important to your business operations allows LEDA’s researchers to tailor, combine, and cross reference multiple data sets to produce an accurate analysis of your target market or location of interest.  Our Business Recruitment staff can assist with your property search and provide information on the market. Email our Manager of Business Recruitment, Hoyt Strain, for assistance.    Relocating to Lafayette?    Relocation Packet  : LEDA has developed a resident-focused overview of Lafayette, LA for individuals interested in relocating to the area.    www.chooselafayette.com: Louisiana Economic Development has partnered with the community to bring you an inclusive website that explores what it's like to live, work, play and experience Lafayette.   Acadiana Living: Developed by One Acadiana, this guide provides an overview of the nine-parish region of Acadiana.      


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site426.php


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site333.php


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/labor-jobs


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site458.php




  Resources for Employees   Acadiana Opportunity  Louisiana Workforce Commission   How to Apply for Unemployment Benefits   LEDA Virtual Job Fair   COVID-19 Help Wanted   Economic Impact Payments   Families First Coronavirus Response Act   Paycheck Protection Program IRS Coronavirus Tax Relief Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)   Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP)   Louisiana Wallet   Resources for Restaurants   Assistance for Artists, Musicians, and Service Industry Workers   Federal Housing Finance Agency   Can I be Evicted?     Information presented below is subject to change as rules are developed  and finalized. Acadiana Opportunity  LEDA, One Acadiana, Acadiana Workforce Solutions, and other partners relaunched AcadianaOpportunity.com, a web portal that helps connect individuals seeking training or employment with resources. The portal includes an in-take form for workers who have lost their job due to COVID-19 to connect with a representative of Acadiana Workforce Solutions, who will determine their eligibility for grant funding that could help cover the cost of enrolling in training or certification classes. Youth, ages 16-24, can also apply for other grant funding intended to support paid work experience. Additionally, the portal lists relevant course offerings at SLCC, LSU Eunice, and UL Lafayette, as well as job assistance resources available through Acadiana Workforce Solutions, LEDA, and Louisiana Job Connection. Louisiana Workforce Commission  |  Frequently Asked Questions 4/10/20   For Employees: Louisiana Workforce Commission (LWC) Guidance for Workers & Unemployment Eligibility Changes           The Louisiana Workforce Commission has made changes to unemployment to  help  workers across the state whose jobs were impacted by the  coronavirus.  The changes mean more people may be eligible for  unemployment insurance.  The work search requirement and one week waiting period have been waived. Those who may qualify include:     Workers whose hours were reduced because of lack of work due to coronavirus Employees who are not being compensated despite their workplace temporarily closing Employees instructed not to go to work, and who are not being paid while at home  Those employees may file a claim online at www.louisianaworks.net/hire   or  by calling the claim center at 866-783-5567. You must answer "yes"  to  the question "Are you filing for unemployment insurance benefits  for  reasons related to COVID-19 (coronavirus)?" How to apply for unemployment benefits    LEDA Virtual Job Fair LEDA  has hosted the LEDA Virtual Job Fair since Hurricane Katrina in 2005.  Job seekers can search local job postings by category.  COVID-19 Help Wanted    These businesses are hiring additional workers to meet customer demand during the COVID-19 public health emergency. Economic Impact Payments  In the weeks immediately after the passage of the CARES Act, Americans  will see fast and direct relief in the form of Economic Impact Payments.  Non-Filers: If you do not file taxes, use the "Non-Filers: Enter Your Payment Info Here" application to provide simple information so you can get your payment. You should use this application if:  You did not file a 2018 or 2019 federal income tax return because your gross income was under $12,200 ($24,400 for married couples). This includes people who had no income. Or You were not required to file a 2018 or 2019 federal income tax return for other reasons  If you receive these benefits, the IRS already has your information and you will receive $1,200. Do not use this application if you receive:  Social Security retirement disability (SSDI), or survivor benefits Railroad Retirement and Survivor Benefits   Special note: People in these groups who have qualifying children under age 17 can use this application to claim the $500 payment per child.  Non-filers who need assistance providing information to the IRS should contact United Way of Acadiana by email or phone at (337) 706-1213.    Online Resources available through Lafayette Public Library (Online Databases )   HomeworkLA.org: free 24/7 with live tutors to help prepare a resume or cover letter, proof either, and prepare for interview questions Lynda.com: brush up on software skills or learn new ones with online course Learning Express: entrance exam preparation including HiSET, GRE and MCAT   Families First Coronavirus Response Act   The Families First  Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) requires certain employers to provide  employees with paid sick or family leave for specified reasons related  to COVID-19.  Paycheck Protection Program    Sole proprietors, independent  contractors, gig economy workers, and self-employed individuals are all  eligible for the Paycheck Protection Program.  The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, enacted  on   March 27, 2020, includes a key provision –the Paycheck Protection    Program–that expands the U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBA)    existing 7(a) loan program. The program provides $349 billion for small    businesses to cover near-term operating expenses and keep their    employees.  IRS Coronavirus Tax Relief   As   part of the federal government's response to the Coronavirus crisis,  the Internal Revenue Service issued guidance allowing all individual tax   filers to defer up to $1 million of federal income tax (including  self-employment tax) payments originally due on April 15 until July 15   without penalties or interest.  Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)   Individuals  impacted by COVID-19 may apply for assistance. DCFS will implement new  provisions as outlined in the Families First Coronavirus Response Act,  which includes additional  food assistance for some families in response  to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP)   In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Louisiana Department of Education (LDOE) today opened the Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP) to support essential critical infrastructure personnel. Interested families must complete the CCAP Pandemic Protective Services Crisis Application. Upon approval, initial certification will be valid for 30 days. If the public health crisis continues beyond 30 days, the LDOE will reassess applications. Louisiana Wallet   LA Wallet, the state of Louisiana's official digital driver's license, will be made available to residents free of charge. The all-digital identification and driver's license app will suspend its fee in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The digital license is valid for the life of the user’s license issuance. Once a user’s physical license expires, they must renew their license with the OMV and purchase a new digital license through LA Wallet. Resources for Restaurants   The  LRA.org website has information for restaurants to make fact-based  decisions during the COVID-19 event. The  site has links for employers,  employees, and links to interim work  opportunities for those facing  decreased work opportunities.  Assistance for Artists, Musicians, and Service Industry Workers Federal Housing Finance Agency  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac (the Enterprises) and the Federal Home Loan Banks are taking steps to help people who have been impacted by the Coronavirus.  If your ability to pay your mortgage is impacted, and your loan is owned by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, you may be eligible to delay making your monthly mortgage payments for a temporary period. Can I Be Evicted?   The CARES Act prevents evictions of individuals living in government subsidized housing or those whose rental property has a federally-backed mortgage. There is a statewide hold on court filings, and in turn evictions, until April 30 (as of 4/2/20). Similarly, guidelines are also in place for hotel evictions.   <<Click here for Resources for Business>>    Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site449.php




COVID-19 Help Wanted The following businesses are hiring additional workers to meet customer demand during the COVID-19 public health emergency.  Additional job postings can be found at www.lafayette.org/jobs.Is your business hiring? Let us know. Send details to our Workforce Development team.Albertsons AramarkArc of Acadiana Costco CVS PharmacyDollar Tree/ Family DollarDominos Pizza Express Employment Professionals  FedExFresh Market   Home DepotHub Enterprises -   Resumes can be sent to ContactTracing@hubenterprises.com for Contract Tracing positions or for Security positions to Securityjobs@hubenterprises.comJimmy Johns  - apply in person at either store  3816 Ambassador Caffery suite A, or 2920 Johnston Street, Lafayette, LALofton Staffing - cleaning personnel/ laborers Lowes McDonalds  Natural Grocers Office DepotPanda Express PetSmart     Piggly Wiggly LafayettePizza HutRaising Cane's Chicken Fingers   Rouses Market   Sam’s ClubSonic    Super 1 Foods    Target StoresWaffle House   WAITR Customer Support Agents WAITR Drivers   Walgreens  WalmartWendys  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site471.php




Applying for Unemployment Insurance Benefits The Louisiana Workforce Commission  has made changes to unemployment to  help  workers across the state whose jobs were impacted by the coronavirus.  The changes mean more people may be eligible for  unemployment insurance.  The work search requirement and one week waiting period have been waived. Those who may qualify include:   Workers whose hours were reduced because of lack of work due to coronavirus Employees who are not being compensated despite their workplace temporarily closing Employees instructed not to go to work, and who are not being paid while at home  Those employees may file a claim online at www.louisianaworks.net/hire   or  by calling the claim center at 866-783-5567. You must answer "yes"  to  the question "Are you filing for unemployment insurance benefits  for  reasons related to COVID-19 (coronavirus)?" If you have applied for Unemployment and do not know whether or not you qualified, log on at www.louisianaworks.net/hire or call 1-866-783-5567.     If you need to reset your password, call 311 (press 2) or (337) 769-4090 and someone can assist you. If any of these situations apply to you, it is VITAL that you continue to submit your weekly certifications every Sunday at www.louisianaworks.net or call 1-866-783-5567:     you HAVE qualified for Unemployment you have NOT yet qualified for Unemployment   you are self-employed or a 1099 worker you received a note from Louisiana Workforce Commission stating you reported zero wages  Frequently Asked Questions (4/10/20)  Self-Employed, independent contractors, and gig workers are eligible to receive Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation as outlined in the CARES Act. Get details below.  NOTE: The Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation is taxable, as are traditional unemployment benefits.  Louisiana Workforce Commission       How to: Apply for UI BenefitsHow to: Weekly CertificationWhere is my $600 from the CARES Act?    Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


Scraping from https://lafayette.org/site456.php




COVID-19 Assistance for Artists, Musicians, and Service Industry Workers  Acadiana Center for the Arts:  resources AcA has gathered from partner organizations and national organizations.   COVID-19 Freelance Artist Resources:  an aggregated list of free resources, opportunities, and financial relief options available to artists of all disciplines.  Artists and musicians:  American Guild of Musical Artists Relief Fund           Any AGMA member in good standing is invited to apply for financial  assistance under the AGMA Relief Fund, which has temporarily doubled the  amount of assistance available to those in need during the coronavirus  pandemic. Artist Relief Tree           Anyone who is an artist can request funds from the Artist Relief Tree,  which plans to fulfill every request with a flat $250 on a  first-come-first-serve basis. The fund is currently not accepting new  requests until it can secure more funding, but to be informed  if and when the opportunity becomes available again, click here. Blues Foundation HART Fund           The HART Fund helps underinsured or uninsured blues musicians and their  families in financial need due to a range of health concerns. Convertkit Creative Fund           The fund covers up to $500 per creator to help cover medical, childcare, housing or grocery needs.  COVID-19 Music Production Response Group           A Facebook group “open forum for constructive debate about the effects  of COVID-19 on music production industry professionals,” according to  administrators who are sharing news updates, suggested actions, job  opportunities and other resources.  Freelance Coop Emergency Fund           The Freelance Coop, which connects creative freelancers with business  resources, created an emergency fund for freelancers adversely affected  by the pandemic. Examples of funding usage are unexpected childcare  costs due to school closures, client cancellations,  and medical expenses due to the virus itself.  Gospel Music Trust Fund           Individuals working in the gospel music field can submit a request for  financial assistance to the Gospel Music Trust Fund, which grants  funding in the event “of an emergency or major catastrophe, terminal or  severe illness”. International Bluegrass Music Association’s BlueGrass Trust Fund           Current or former bluegrass music professionals can apply here for  financial grants and loans, which are generally between $500 and $5,000.  The association has also created a coronavirus-specific resource  page. Jazz Foundation of America Musicians’ Emergency Fund           This fund offers financial support, housing assistance and pro bono  medical care for musicians who have made a living playing blues, jazz  and roots music. Leveler.info           The “peer-to-peer wealth distribution” service is a tool for salaried  workers to donate funds across a database of freelancers, service  industry and gig economy workers who are impacted by coronavirus health  and safety restrictions.  Missed Tour           Artists and bands who have been displaced from touring due to the  pandemic can list their merchandise on this site to help offset lost  revenue -- with zero charges or fees. Apply to be added to the site here. MusiCares           The Recording Academy and its charitable foundation MusiCares have  committed $2 million in total to a COVID-19 Relief Fund, established to  assist those in the music community who have been affected by the  pandemic. People can donate and apply for assistance  by navigating to the fund’s official web page. Music Maker Relief Foundation           The foundation, which provides ongoing support to American artists 55  and older who live in chronic poverty, also gives out emergency grants  to artists in crisis. It is now soliciting  donations to ensure the stability of vulnerable elderly musicians during the pandemic. Pinetop Perkins Foundation’s Assistance League           PAL provides financial assistance to elderly musicians for medical and  living expenses. Preference is given to blues artists, though musicians  in other genres may be eligible depending on available funds. SAG-AFTRA COVID-19 Disaster Fund           SAG-AFTRA members who are in an emergency financial crisis related to  coronavirus may request assistance to cover basic expenses like rent,  mortgage, utilities and medical bills. To apply to the fund, members  must have paid their dues through October 2019. Sound Royalties           Music finance firm Sound Royalties is allocating $20 million to offer a  no-cost royalty advance funding option through April 16. Songwriters,  performing artists, producers and other creators with royalty income can  apply for cash advances on a one-year repayment  schedule, cost-free. Sweet Relief COVID-19 Fund           Sweet Relief has established a donor-directed fund to be used  specifically for musicians and music industry workers affected by the  coronavirus. Funds will go towards medical expenses, lodging, clothing,  food and other vital living expenses for those who get  sick or lose work due to the pandemic. Foundation for Contemporary Arts             COVID-19 Relief fund is available for those seeking relief for a canceled performance or exhibition.    Service Industry/ Restaurants:  Restaurant Employee Relief Fund  Through the Restaurant Employee Relief Fund, the National Restaurant Association Educational Foundation will provide grants to restaurant industry employees who have been adversely impacted by COVID-19, financially, whether through a decrease in wages or loss of employment. Applications open April 2.   One Fair Wage Emergency Fund             OFW Emergency Fund is providing cash assistance  to restaurant workers, car service drivers, delivery workers, personal  service workers and more.  USBG National Charity Foundation             The USBG National Charity Foundation has launched  the Bartender Emergency Assistance Program. Those in the bar industry  can apply for assistance and they do not need to be a USBG member to  apply for a grant. Restaurant  Workers’ Community Foundation              The RWCF COVID-19 Crisis Relief Fund has been  created and is collecting donations to provide relief to individual  workers affected by the coronavirus and to create zero-interest loans to  businesses. Restaurant Opportunities Centers United               The National Restaurant Worker Relief Fund is a  pool of money raised by members and donors of the Restaurant  Opportunities Centers United. $500 relief grants are available for  hospitality workers who lost their jobs or had their hours  slashed in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak Children of Restaurant Employees               If a family qualifies for CORE support, they can  receive a grant to cover medical bills for children, gas cards,  groceries, clothing, medical supplies and therapies, utilities, rent and  mortgage, and other essential needs a family might  need to navigate their specific circumstance.  Another Round Another Rally              Another Round Another Rally is offering $500  relief grants for hospitality workers who lost their jobs or had their  hours slashed in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Southern Smoke               The Southern Smoke Emergency Relief Program will  provide emergency funding to those employed by or own restaurants or  bars or are employed by a restaurant or bar supplier that are faced  unforeseen expenses that cannot or will not be covered  by insurance. SupportRestaurants.org              The Dining Bonds Initiative is open to any  restaurant/bar/eatery across the globe. There is no fee to any  restaurant to participate in the initiative. According to the site  “Essentially, they are gift certificates that are sold at a suggested  price of 25% less than face value, but redeemable at face value upon  dining at the restaurant. The goal is to sell them for the next 30 days  to bring needed income to the restaurants and have them redeemable  typically 30-60 days after purchase.”  United States Bartenders Guild   United States Bartenders Guild National Charity Foundation is accepting  applications for emergency assistance for Bartenders affected by  Coronovirus pandemic.    Questions?Do you have questions or something to add? Email us.  


