


Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov/covid19





Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/casecount


Case Count Reporting in Cambridge


Case Count



1097
Cambridge residents who have tested positive for COVID-19




97
Confirmed COVID-19 deaths in Cambridge residents


*as of 3:57 PM on June 30
View More Details



Case Count



1097
Cambridge residents who have tested positive for COVID-19




97
Confirmed COVID-19 deaths in Cambridge residents


*as of 3:57 PM on June 30
View More Details


The City and the Public Health Department's COVID-19 Data Center presents charts, maps, and other information on COVID-19 in Cambridge. Recently, several changes have been made. A chart displaying the total number of Cambridge cases who have recovered from COVID-19 replaced two charts that showed recoveries over time. The time-based charts were discontinued because a substantial portion of recovered cases were missing a date of recovery and therefore could not be displayed. Due to this change, the number of reported recoveries increased significantly. In addition, the Data Center now shows a breakdown of Cambridge cases by classification: confirmed cases (positive viral test) and probable cases (positive antibody test or clinical diagnosis). Data include:

Demographics
Cumulative cases
New cases
Case rate by race and ethnicity
Deaths among residents by race/ethnicity
Cases by neighborhood
Recoveries and other outcomes

View Cambridge Data
Massachusetts is producing one of the most comprehensive COVID-19 public data reports in the nation. Data include:

A daily dashboard that includes cases, testing, hospitalizations, deaths at county and state levels.
A weekly public health report that includes town-by-town case and testing information, deaths and infection control compliance at skilled nursing facilities, and PPE distribution. 
A state facility COVID-19 report that includes weekly testing results for state-operated facilities and congregate care programs.

View State Data



Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov/https://lp.constantcontactpages.com/su/xdOL2Ta/COVID19


Server Error in '/' Application.


Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov/https://public.coderedweb.com/CNE/en-US/F8C030CDD4FF


Server Error in '/' Application.


Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/casecount


Case Count Reporting in Cambridge


Case Count



1097
Cambridge residents who have tested positive for COVID-19




97
Confirmed COVID-19 deaths in Cambridge residents


*as of 3:57 PM on June 30
View More Details



Case Count



1097
Cambridge residents who have tested positive for COVID-19




97
Confirmed COVID-19 deaths in Cambridge residents


*as of 3:57 PM on June 30
View More Details


The City and the Public Health Department's COVID-19 Data Center presents charts, maps, and other information on COVID-19 in Cambridge. Recently, several changes have been made. A chart displaying the total number of Cambridge cases who have recovered from COVID-19 replaced two charts that showed recoveries over time. The time-based charts were discontinued because a substantial portion of recovered cases were missing a date of recovery and therefore could not be displayed. Due to this change, the number of reported recoveries increased significantly. In addition, the Data Center now shows a breakdown of Cambridge cases by classification: confirmed cases (positive viral test) and probable cases (positive antibody test or clinical diagnosis). Data include:

Demographics
Cumulative cases
New cases
Case rate by race and ethnicity
Deaths among residents by race/ethnicity
Cases by neighborhood
Recoveries and other outcomes

View Cambridge Data
Massachusetts is producing one of the most comprehensive COVID-19 public data reports in the nation. Data include:

A daily dashboard that includes cases, testing, hospitalizations, deaths at county and state levels.
A weekly public health report that includes town-by-town case and testing information, deaths and infection control compliance at skilled nursing facilities, and PPE distribution. 
A state facility COVID-19 report that includes weekly testing results for state-operated facilities and congregate care programs.

View State Data



Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/updates


Updates

(6/30/20) Traffic pattern change coming to Inman Square July 1
(6/30/20) Covid-19 Emergency and Recovery Grants for Cambridge nonprofit organizations application period begins on July 1
(6/30/20) City is seeking Cambridge Business Owners feedback on their Phase 2 reopening experience
(6/30/20) Governor Baker announced updated travel guidance for those traveling to Massachusetts. 
(6/27/20) Emergency face covering order amended for summer months
    (6/27/20) Temporary emergency construction order updated
(6/26/20) Free mobile COVID-19 testing comes to 4 neighborhoods during July
(6/25/20) Commonwealth of Massachusetts releases Initial Fall School Reopening Guidance
(6/24/20) Cambridge Basketball Courts, Playgrounds, Tot Lots, and Water Play Structures to Reopen on Monday, June 29
(6/24/20) Street Cleaning parking restrictions will be enforced beginning Wednesday, July 1
(6/24/20) View the Council on Aging Virtual Art Exhibit 
(6/22/20) City of Cambridge Announces Street Changes to Increase Outdoor Dining Options
(6/20/20) Update on the reopening of various outdoor amenities in Cambridge
(6/19/20) Step Two of Phase II of Reopening Massachusetts Set to Begin on June 22, Including Indoor Table Service at Restaurants
(6/19/20) COVID-19 Deaths Among Residents by Race/Ethnicity added to Cambridge COVID-19 Data Center
(6/18/20) Community Webinar on Shared Streets Pilot Program scheduled for June 25
(6/17/20) City of Cambridge Adapts Summer Programming to Continue Supporting Cambridge Youth and Families
(6/16/20) Cambridge Public Health Department shares Guidance for Cambridge Business Managers Regarding Local Board of Health Reporting for COVID-19
(6/16/20) Community Benefits Advisory Committee to Offer $1 Million in Grants to Eligible Nonprofits
(6/15/20) Cambridge Public Library to kick off Summer Reading Program
(6/15/20) Testing will be made available this Wednesday and Thursday at the East Cambridge Testing Site on Gore St as part of Governor Charlie Baker's announcement of a two-day testing initiative across the Commonwealth for anyone who has attended a recent large gathering
(6/15/20)The Department of Human Service Programs will offer free Online/Offline Summer 2020 Programming to Cambridge youth in grades K-8. Registration opens Monday, June 22
(6/15/20) Visit Cambridge Open Archives virtually June 15-19
(6/14/20) City of Cambridge departments to offer in-person services by appointment only beginning week of June 15
(6/12/20) The City of Cambridge issued an Emergency Order Temporarily Suspending Enforcement of the Cambridge Zoning Ordinance at City Parking Lot No. 5
(6/11/20) Dog parks and tennis courts to reopen on Monday, June 15
(6/10/20) Changes to Cambridge COVID-19 Data Center
(6/9/20) Main Library to begin offering contactless holds pickup on June 16
(6/9/20) The Recycling Center at Public Works will reopen on June 13 and Household Hazardous Waste Day will occur on June 27. Learn more.
(6/8/20) Courts and playgrounds remain closed in Cambridge while the City assess the potential public health impacts involved with reopening
(6/8/20) Starting June 16, the Cambridge Planning Board will hold meetings with remote participation
(6/6/20) Applications for Temporary Extension of Licensed Premises to Outdoor Area Due to COVID-19 in Cambridge are now available
(6/6/20) Baker-Polito Administration Initiates Transition to Second Phase of Four-Phase Approach
(6/5/20) The Traffic, Parking, and Transportation Department announced that all parking regulations, including meter payment requirements, will be in effect starting June 15
(6/4/20) City of Cambridge to Offer Free COVID-19 Testing in North Cambridge on June 9, 11, and 13
(6/4/20) Cambridge residents who have not yet applied for 2020 Parking Permits are encouraged to submit their Parking Permit application(s) as soon as possible
(6/3/20) City of Cambridge Encourages Residents to "Pick It Up Cambridge"
(6/3/20)This month, the City and Food for Fee will merge the Cambridge Community Food Line with Food for Free’s Home Delivery Program
(6/2/20) COVID-19 Cases Surpass 1,000 in Cambridge
(6/1/20) City of Cambridge Virtual Vigil for George Floyd is now available online
(6/1/20) Governor Baker Issues Executive Order in Advance of Phase II
(5/29/20) Safety Standards and Checklists for Restaurants and Operators of Lodgings from the State have been posted under Phase 2 on the City's Reopening page
(5/29/20) City of Cambridge Cancels Annual Dance Party and Amends Temporary Emergency Restrictions on Public Meetings and Events
(5/28/20) City of Cambridge Announces Shared Street Pilot
(5/28/20) Street Cleaning to Resume June 1; residents not required to move their cars
(5/28/20) City of Cambridge updates two temporary emergency orders related to closing certain businesses and face coverings
(5/28/20) Cambridge Proposed and Future Changes for COVID-19 Response and Recovery related to Shared Street pilot PDF available
(5/27/20) Information on how to shop farmers markets safely and responsibly are now available
(5/26/20) Virtual programming for Cambridge seniors is now available from the Council on Aging
(5/25/20) City of Cambridge Veterans' Services Memorial Day 2020 Observance Commemoration Video
(5/24/20) A new City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening is now available, providing staff contact information for members of the public to reach out to with questions/help reopening their establishment
(5/21/20) City officials joined members of the Veterans Services Department, Cambridge Police and Cambridge Fire to place flags at the graves of our fallen. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, this year’s Memorial Day observances will feature several virtual events and remembrances.
(5/21/20) The City of Cambridge has released an amended Temporary Emergency Construction Order that applies to all construction activity on both public and private property in Cambridge. 
(5/20/20) Riverbend Park in Cambridge to Open on May 24 and May 31 as Part of Pilot Program; Fresh Pond Golf Course to Open May 21
(5/20/20) City of Cambridge releases Amended Temporary Emergency Construction Order
(5/20/20) Read a message from the City Manager to Cambridge Business Owners asking them to delay the opening of office spaces until at least June 1
(5/20/20) A dedicated page for information on reopening Cambridge as well as access to additional state information and guidelines has been added to the City's website
(5/20/20) A dedicated page for COVID-19 testing information in Cambridge and access to other state resources has been added to the City's website
(5/19/20) City Announces Dates for COVID-19 Testing in The Port and Cambridge Housing Authority Senior Housing
(5/19/20) CityView Newsletter Special COVID-19 Edition was mailed to Cambridge households this week
(5/18/20) Cambridge Officials Reviewing State Plan as City Finalizes Reopening Strategy
(5/18/20) Baker-Polito Administration Initiates Transition to First Phase of Four-Phase Approach
(5/18/20) The Baker-Polito Administration released a comprehensive plan to safely reopen the Massachusetts economy, get people back to work, and ease social restrictions while minimizing the health impacts of COVID-19
(5/18/20) Massachusetts Department of Public Health releases new “Safer At Home” Advisory, which instructs residents to stay at home unless engaging with newly opened activities, as a way to continue limiting the spread of COVID-19.
(5/16/20) Ask the Mayor and City Manager, Episode 2 to air on 22-Cityview and is now available online
(5/16/20) New resource available for locating COVID-19 testing sites across the Commonwealth
(5/15/20) Grant and loan applications through the Mayor's Disaster Relief Fund and Cambridge Redevelopment Authority Loan Program for small businesses are now available
(5/14/20) City of Cambridge Reaches More than 7,000 Residents via Senior Phone Outreach Initiative
(5/14/20) Applications for the Cambridge Small Business COVID-19 Recovery Grant are now open
(5/13/20) Cambridge Public Health shares Tips for Staying Safe while Grocery Shopping & Ordering Take-Out Food
(5/13/20) The start of Street Cleaning has been suspended until June 1
(5/12/20) City of Cambridge to Further Expand COVID-19 Testing in Cambridge
(5/12/20) City and Public Health Department add Neighborhood Map showing COVID-19 Cases Among Residents by Neighborhood (Rate and Count) to Data Center
(5/12/20) Unemployment in the Time of COVID-19, a three-part webinar series presented by the Department of Human Service Programs’ Office of Workforce Development and Community Learning Center, and the Job Connector by MIT, will provide information and answer questions related to unemployment
(5/11/20) Governor Baker announced today the Massachusetts economy will be reopened using a four-phase approach, based on public health guidance
(5/11/20) Cambridge Small Business COVID-19 Recovery Grant information available; link to application to be posted on May 14
(5/9/20) The Department of Conservation and Recreation and the City of Cambridge announced that Riverbend Park will not open on Sunday, May 10 or Sunday, May 17
(5/8/20) Guidelines for the Small Business Grants Provided by the City of Cambridge’s Mayor’s Disaster Relief Fund & Small Business Zero Interest Loans Provided by the Cambridge Redevelopment Authority are now available, and information on the application process will be released the week of May 11
(5/8/20) City of Cambridge and the Cambridge Public Library Donate Books to City Youth via Lunch Sites and Community Members at the War Memorial
(5/8/20) Fresh Pond Golf Course to remain closed to golf activities
(5/7/20) CHA Launches COVID-19 Testing in Cambridge
(5/7/20) The Cambridge Public Health Department has made the difficult decision not to hold its annual Hoops ‘N’ Health sports tournament and health fair in its traditional format at Hoyt Field
(5/7/20) The City of Cambridge and De Novo will hold their next Virtual Immigration Legal Screening Clinic on May 20, 2020.
(5/6/20) City of Cambridge Distributes nearly $1 Million from Mayor's Disaster Relief Fund and will Continue Accepting Applications through May 15
(5/6/20) City of Cambridge to resume distribution of free face masks on Thursday, May 7
(5/6/20) Comcast extends 60 days of free internet access for low-income families to June 30
(5/5/20) City of Cambridge and Cambridge Redevelopment Authority Announce New Small Business Relief Program
(5/5/20) Memorial Day parade and public observance cancelled this year
(5/5/20) Residents invited to submit questions for another episode of Ask the Mayor and City Manager
(5/4/20) City of Cambridge Appoints Construction Advisory Group to Plan Safe Reopening Strategy
(5/4/20) Restaurants approved to sell groceries added to list compiled showing which businesses are open/closed, offering takeout/delivery/online sales, etc.
(5/1/20) Baker-Polito Administration Orders Use of Mask or Face Covering in Public
(4/30/20) City of Cambridge Appoints Small Business Advisory Committee to Plan Safe Reopening Strategy
(4/30/20) Application for restaurants who wish to sell groceries directly to consumers now available online
(4/30/20) Street Performer Program Temporarily Suspended
(4/29/20) City of Cambridge to Provide Thousands of Masks to Residents in Need
(4/29/20) City and Public Health Department add COVID-19 Case Rate by Race & Ethnicity to Cambridge COVID-19 Data Center
(4/29/20) City of Cambridge releases Mandatory Guidelines for Restaurant Sale of Groceries During COVID-19 Pandemic
(4/29/20) The City of Cambridge and its municipal partners of Boston, Brookline, Everett, and Somerville are offering all hospital staff a free 30-day pass for our public bike share, Bluebikes
(4/28/20) Governor Baker has extended his closure of non-essential businesses and the Stay At Home advisory through May 18.
(4/27/20) The City of Cambridge Issues an Emergency Order Requiring the Use of Face Coverings
(4/27/20) The City issued a temporary emergency order allowing restaurants to sell groceries directly to consumers during the ongoing COVID-19 emergency.
(4/25/20) The Department of Conservation and Recreation and the City of Cambridge announced that Riverbend Park will not open on Sunday, April 26 and Sunday, May 3 and Memorial Drive will remain open for vehicular traffic
(4/24/20) Cambridge updates Temporary Restrictions on City Public Meetings, City Events, and City Permitted Events Due to COVID-19 through May 31, 2020
(4/24/20) Ask the Mayor and City Manager program to premiere on Friday, April 24 at 7:00 p.m. on 22-Cityview where they answer questions submitted by residents (video available online)
(4/24/20) The start of the street cleaning season has been delayed until May 18
(4/23/20) Cambridge Police to host virtual science fest event this Friday, April 24, at 11:30 a.m.
(4/23/20) A list of which nonprofit organizations are open/closed and may be offering remote or in-person services is now available
(4/23/20) Cambridge Police alert residents of increase in online scams
(4/23/20) Nomination paper deadlines for candidates for state district and county offices have been extended by one week
(4/22/20) Emergency childcare programs are being made available to those on a limited basis who have no other option for care during this public health crisis
(4/22/20) Governor Baker signs legislation into law to protect homeowners and tenants from eviction and foreclosure

(4/21/20) City of Cambridge to Deploy Sound Trucks to Expand COVID-19 Prevention Outreach
(4/21/20) City and Public Health Department add COVID-19 Cases by Zip Code map to Cambridge COVID-19 Data Center
(4/21/20) Baker-Polito Administration Announces Extension of School and Non-Emergency Child Care Program Closures
(4/20/20) The Baker-Polito administration announced that residents who have lost employment as a result of the current public health crisis, but are ordinarily not eligible for unemployment benefits, can now apply for aid through the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance (PUA) program, a program established by the CARES Act.
(4/17/20) City Issues First Round of Checks to Residents from the Mayor’s Disaster Relief Fund.
(4/17/20) City reminds residents to wear face coverings when outside the home
(4/17/20) The City and Public Health Department launched a new COVID-19 Data Center. This new dashboard is in the testing phase as we work to present data to the community in a format that is more mobile and user friendly.
(4/16/20) Field House at City of Cambridge’s Temporary Emergency Shelter to Open Tomorrow
(4/16/20) In observance of Patriot's Day, there will be no curbside collections on Monday, April 20th and collections will be delayed by one day for the remainder of the week
(4/15/20) Next week, Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui and City Manager Louis A. DePasquale will be answering your questions about COVID-19, the City’s response to the pandemic, and its impacts on the entire Cambridge community
(4/14/20) Cambridge Public Health announceschanges to COVID-19 case count reporting
(4/14/20) Broad Institute COVID-19 Rapid Testing Pilot Program in Cambridge Skilled Nursing and Assisted Living facilities frequently asked questions now available
(4/14/20)The Cambridge Commission for Persons with Disabilities created resources to help people with disabilities during this public health crisis
(4/13/20) The Temporary Emergency Shelter at the War Memorial Recreation Center will partially open on April 14.  
(4/13/20) Health Department Announces Over 200 COVID-19 Cases in Skilled Nursing and Assisted Living Facilities in Cambridge
(4/10/20) Commonwealth of Massachusetts to Contract with Cambridge Hotel to House COVID-19 Individuals
(4/10/20) City of Cambridge Partners with Broad Institute on Pilot Project for COVID-19 Testing in Nursing Homes
(4/9/20) City of Cambridge Urges Residents to Wear Face Coverings When Leaving the House
(4/9/20) Public Health Guidance for Residents on Wearing Face Coverings During COVID-19
(4/8/20) City of Cambridge to begin Accepting Applications for Mayor's Disaster Relief Fund for COVID-19
(4/8/20) State Launches Nursing Home Family Resource Line
(4/7/20) Mayor's Disaster Relief Fund Update
(4/7/20) Cambridge Arts River Festival cancelled due to COVID-19
(4/6/20) Harvard University & Massachusetts Institute of Technology Donate $500,000 to Support Cambridge’s Temporary Emergency Shelter
(4/6/20) The Cambridge Public Health Department has shared Tips for Staying Safe While Exercising and Playing Outside as well as a list of recreational areas that are open around the region.
(4/3/20) City of Cambridge Issues Emergency Temporary Eviction Enforcement Order
(4/3/20) City issues Emergency Order that War Memorial, Field House and Garage be Used for a Temporary Emergency Shelter
(4/2/20) City of Cambridge Issues Mandatory Guidelines for Approved Construction Activity.
(4/2/20) Information about the federal economic relief package known as the CARES Act is now available.
(4/1/20) Second Half Property Tax bills will be mailed on Tuesday April 7th. Property Tax bills can be accessed or paid online by going to cambridgema.gov/paybill.
(4/1/20) A “Payment Mailbox” has been installed in the rear of City Hall, 795 Mass. Ave. for taxpayers who wish to make payments (checks and money orders preferred) directly to the City. Individuals using the “Payment Mailbox” option should ensure that their payments are in a sealed envelope, contain a payment stub, and include the bill number, parcel ID, or other identifying information, including a phone number on their check. Individuals can use the “Payment Mailbox” to make Real Estate, Water/Sewer, Excise, Parking Ticket, or other payments.
(3/31/20) The City of Cambridge and Cambridge Public Schools, in partnership with local nonprofit Food for Free, have served thousands of meals to Cambridge adults and children since widespread closures and food service disruptions due to the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) outbreak began in mid-March.
(3/31/20) Mayor Siddiqui and City Manager DePasquale send a message to parents/guardians of Cambridge Rindge & Latin School students on the use of the War Memorial Recreation Center, Field House and Garage for temporary emergency shelter.
(3/31/20) Governor Baker extends non-essential business closures until May 4.
(3/31/20) On behalf of the City of Cambridge, Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui and City Manager Louis DePasquale are extremely thankful to the Biogen Foundation for its $1 million donation to the Mayor’s Disaster Relief Fund.
(3/30/20) City Manager issues statement on temporary emergency shelter.
(3/30/20) City of Cambridge announces COVID-19 expert advisory panel.
(3/29/20) The Cambridge Public Health Department announced today, March 29, 2020, the first death of a city resident due to complications from COVID-19. View full media release.
(3/29/20) The Cambridge Police Department’s Domestic Violence Unit has compiled a valuable resource guide and suggested safety plans for residents that may be isolated with an abusive partner or household member, be in fear and/or unable to access critical services for safety and support. Remember: help is available.
(3/29/20) Grant applications are available for a new Small Business COVID-19 Relief Grant Program, which is designed to provide short-term working capital assistance to enable the viability of the business and retention of jobs during the severe interruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
(3/27/20) To support ratepayers experiencing financial hardship, the City of Cambridge will suspend adding interest and late fees to the recently issued and future water and sewer bills that are due between March 30, 2020 - June 29, 2020.
(3/27/20) The City of Cambridge will temporarily absorb all credit card and ACH fees relating to online payments of Real Estate, Personal Property, Water Bills, etc., paid through our Invoice Cloud payment portal. This change is effective immediately and will remain until further notice.
(3/26/20) The City of Cambridge’s Temporary Emergency Construction Moratorium of March 18, 2020 will remain in effect while the City Solicitor in consultation with the City’s Commissioner of Public Health reviews the Governor’s March 25, 2020 announcement.
(3/26/20) The City is providing information in multiple languages related to important COVID-19 content. A Multilingual Help resource is now available in Amharic, Arabic, Bangla, Haitian Creole, Portuguese, Spanish, and Simplified Chinese. This resource will be updated on an ongoing basis.
(3/26/20) The Small Business COVID-19 Relief Grant Program is a special program helping Cambridge’s U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (or HUD) eligible retail, food, personal services, and creative for-profit businesses with a grant up to $6,000 per brick and mortar business. Applications are available starting March 26, 2020.
(3/25/20) On March 25th, Governor Baker announced school closures state-wide. This news means that the CPS school closure will be extended until May 4th.
(3/25/20) Cambridge Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui and City Manager Louis DePasquale express profound gratitude on behalf of the City to Takeda Pharmaceutical for its $2 million donation to the Mayor’s Disaster Relief Fund.
(3/24/20) Cambridge First Responders Assist with Distributing Donated 50,000 PPEs to Local Hospitals
(3/24/20) The City of Cambridge has created and translated a bridge "Stay at Home Advisory" flyer, available in seven languages, to share with the community.
(3/23/20) Cambridge City Manager and Commissioner of Public Health Issue Temporary Emergency Order Preventing Use of Reusable Bags at Retail Establishments

(3/23/20) Governor Baker issues "Stay at Home" Advisory for two weeks; orders all non-essential businesses to cease in person operation
(3/23/20) The City of Cambridge has closed all basketball and tennis courts, as well as playgrounds and tot lots, until further notice to encourage people to practice social distancing.
(3/22/20) The City of Cambridge and Food for Free set up the Cambridge Community Food Line, a food item delivery service for eligible Cambridge residents who are at high risk of food insecurity. Learn More.
(3/22/20) City of Cambridge Providing Ongoing Support for Seniors and Homeless Community During the COVID-19 Crisis. Learn More
(3/22/20) Massachusetts Dept of Unemployment Assistance will be conducting a series of virtual town halls to provide support to residents navigating the application process. Learn More
(3/22/20) A list showing which businesses are open/closed is now available and is being frequently updated
(3/21/20) Housing resources and frequently asked questions now available.
(3/21/20) Tax Extensions and Waivers for Small Businesses and other Business Resources. 
(3/20/20) Cambridge Launches New Project with Business Community to Support Homeless Community During COVID-19 Crisis
(3/20/20) City Manager and Public Health Commissioner Issue Temporary Emergency Order on the Closure of Several Businesses and Activities
(3/19/20) City Services, including Trash, Recycling, and Compost will remain on schedule. Street Cleaning Delayed until May 1
(3/19/20) City of Cambridge and Cambridge Public Health Department Declare Public Health Emergency
(3/19/20) City of Cambridge establishes Mayor's Disaster Relief Fund for COVID-19
(3/19/20) Submit Public Comment for Cambridge City Council Meetings through Zoom Virtual Meetings. 
(3/18/20) City of Cambridge institutes Temporary Emergency Construction Moratorium on all construction activity on both public and private property until further notice.
(3/18/20) Residents with a Cambridge Public Library card can access digital services like eBooks, audiobooks, magazines, newspapers, music, and movies on a  computer or mobile device.
(3/18/20) Cambridge Public Library FAQs during the closure period.
(3/17/20) View a listing of Senior Services, including special grocery hours for those 60 and over
(3/17/20) Resources for Local Businesses
(3/17/20) Download General Hygiene, Social Distancing and Food Waste Guidance for Take-Out Restaurants and Food Markets
(3/16/20) New guidelines related to parking meters, 2019 Resident and Visitor Permits, parks and playgrounds, on-premise consumption. Read Release.
(3/16/20) Cambridge Public Health Department Announces New COVID-19 Cases. Read release. 
(3/16/20) Cambridge issues COVID-19 Updated Events and Meetings Policy. Read Policy. 
(3/16/20) Cambridge City Council Meeting of March 16, 2020 to be held via remote participation. Read release. 
(3/16/20) Effective at 5 p.m. on March 16, 2020, all City of Cambridge Offices are closed until further notice. City events and programs are cancelled until further notice.  
(3/15/20) Cambridge Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui and City Manager Louis A. DePasquale Issue Statement Related to COVID-19 Emergency Measures. Read release.
(3/12/20) Cambridge Public Schools will close at the end of the school day on Friday, March 13. Schools will remain closed through April 6, 2020 (subject to change). View CPS website for further details.




Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/News


News






Filter By Department
22-CityView
Animal Commission
Assessing
Auditing
Budget
Cambridge Arts
Cambridge Fire
Cambridge Police
Cambridge Public Library
City Clerk's Office
City Council
City Manager's Office
Commission for Persons with Disabilities
Community Development
Community Preservation Act
Consumers' Council
Domestic and Gender Based Violence Prevention Initiative
Election Commission
Electrical
Emergency Communications
Equity & Inclusion
Finance
GIS
Historical Commission
Human Rights Commission
Human Service Programs
Information Technology
Inspectional Services
Law
LGBTQ+ Commission
License
Mayor's Office
Open Data
Peace Commission
Personnel
Police Review & Advisory Board
Public Works
Purchasing
Traffic, Parking, and Transportation
Veterans Services
Water Department
Weights and Measures






Displaying 1-10 of 81 results



Take the Small Business Reopening Survey
6/30/2020

The City is asking local business owners to provide feedback on their Phase 2 reopening experience. 





COVID-19 Emergency and Recovery Grants for Cambridge Nonprofit Organizations
6/30/2020

The intent of this funding is to provide COVID-19 related assistance and critical supports to the vulnerable and at-risk Cambridge families and individuals served by Cambridge nonprofit organizations. The nonprofits are a critical resource to support vulnerable residents and this is especially true during the coronavirus pandemic.





Traffic Pattern Change Coming to Inman Square July 1
6/30/2020

Cambridge St will be one-way westbound for motor vehicles from Prospect St to Springfield St





Cambridge Basketball Courts, Playgrounds, Tot Lots, and Water Play Structures to Reopen on Monday, June 29
6/24/2020

The City of Cambridge announced that the City’s basketball courts, playgrounds, tot lots, and water play structures will reopen for public use on Monday, June 29. Residents should follow all applicable City and State Public Health guidance and guidelines related to the use of these facilities. 





City of Cambridge Announces Street Changes to Increase Outdoor Dining Options
6/22/2020

This work expands on the outdoor dining spaces that previously existed in Cambridge before COVID-19 and is made possible by increased flexibility in the State’s rules relative to permitting outdoor dining areas. 





Step Two of Phase II of Reopening Massachusetts Set to Begin on June 22
6/19/2020

Step Two of Phase II of the Commonwealth’s four-phase reopening plan, Reopening Massachusetts, will begin on Monday, June 22 to allow additional industries to resume operations under sector-specific guidelines.





Cambridge's Community Benefits Advisory Committee to Offer  $1 Million in Grants to Eligible Nonprofit Organizations
6/16/2020

The Community Benefits Advisory Committee (CBAC) will be issuing an application for $10,000 grants for up to 100 eligible 501c3 nonprofit organizations. The grants will support services to vulnerable Cambridge residents during the COVID-19 emergency and recovery.





City of Cambridge Departments to Offer In-Person Services by Appointment Only Beginning Week of June 15
6/14/2020

As City of Cambridge buildings, departments, and services plan for a safe and limited reopening to the public, the City has created a new page with the most up-to-date information about each department and how to get in touch with them.





City of Cambridge Announces Dog Parks and Tennis Courts to Reopen on Monday, June 15
6/11/2020

The City of Cambridge announced that the City’s dog parks and tennis courts will reopen for public use on Monday, June 15. 





Baker-Polito Administration Initiates Transition to Second Phase of Four-Phase Approach
6/6/2020

The Baker-Polito Administration announced that Phase II of the Commonwealth’s reopening plan will begin on June 8th. Businesses and sectors set to begin opening in Phase II are subject to compliance with all mandatory safety standards.




1234Next





Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/publichealth


Public Health


Case Count



1097
Cambridge residents who have tested positive for COVID-19




97
Confirmed COVID-19 deaths in Cambridge residents


*as of 3:57 PM on June 30
View More Details



ContactIf you have questions or concerns about COVID-19:

Call the Massachusetts COVID-19 Information Line at 2-1-1. The call center is equipped to handle a high call volume.
If the Massachusetts 2-1-1 cannot answer your questions, contact the Cambridge Public Health Department (CPHD) at covid19inquiries@challiance.org.
Telephone: Leave a message on the department's COVID-19 phone line at 617-665-3648.

Due to the high volume of inquiries about COVID-19, CPHD staff may not be able to respond individually to all requests for information and guidance. We will do our best to get back to you in a timely manner.
Media ContactSusan Feinberg, MPH
Public Information Officer
Cambridge Public Health Department
617-665-3833
sfeinberg@challiance.org

Case Count



1097
Cambridge residents who have tested positive for COVID-19




97
Confirmed COVID-19 deaths in Cambridge residents


*as of 3:57 PM on June 30
View More Details


Message from the Public Health Department
Social distancing is still the most important thing we can do right now to help keep people healthy and prevent overwhelming hospitals with large numbers of very sick patients.
 
Please continue to do your part to:

Stay at home and avoid all non-essential contact with others.
Wear face coverings whenever outside your home.
Limit trips for groceries, gas, and other essentials.
If you must go out, stay at least 6 feet away from others at all times, avoid crowds of any size, and do not shake hands or hug.

Local Guidance for the Community

Emergency Order Requiring the Use of Face Coverings
Guidance for Residents on Wearing Face Coverings During COVID-19
Guidance for Large Residential & Multi-unit Properties
Hygiene Guidance for Businesses & Public Offices
Hygiene, Social Distancing, & Food Waste Guidance for Restaurants & Food Markets
Guidance for Taking Care of Your Mental Health
Dental Emergency Guidance
Guidance for How to Safely Operate a Food Pantry During COVID-19
Guidance for Cambridge Business Managers Regarding Local Board of Health Reporting for COVID-19
Tips for Staying Safe while Exercising & Playing Outside
Tips for Staying Safe while Grocery Shopping & Ordering Take-Out Food
Nursing Home Family Resource Line now available at 617-660-5399


Current Risk

What is the current risk in Massachusetts?
Updated on May 22, 2020
 
Massachusetts has among the highest rates of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the nation. 
 
Since late April, there have been improvements in some key public health metrics, notably a steady decline in new hospitalizations and deaths from COVID-19 among Massachusetts residents.
 
While this is good news, there is ongoing widespread community level transmission of COVID-19 in Massachusetts. For this reason, all Cambridge residents should continue to consider themselves at risk for infection and take appropriate precautions as the state continues to reopen, including wearing a face covering when outside your home and staying 6 feet apart from people you don’t live with.
Who is at greatest risk for serious illness?
COVID-19 is a new disease and there is limited information regarding risk factors for severe disease. 
Based on what we know now, those at high-risk for severe illness from COVID-19 according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), are:

People 65 years and older.
 People who live in a nursing home or long-term care facility.

People of all ages with underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled, including:

People with chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma.
People who have serious heart conditions.
People who are immunocompromised.

Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including cancer treatment, smoking, bone marrow or organ transplantation, immune deficiencies, poorly controlled HIV or AIDS, and prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications.


People with severe obesity (body mass index of 40 or higher).People with diabetes.
People with chronic kidney disease undergoing dialysis.
People with liver disease.

On May 14, the CDC issued a health advisory about a rare and serious condition in children associated with COVID-19. Cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) have occurred among children with recent or current COVID-19 infections.  





COVID-19 Symptoms, Testing, & Care

What are the symptoms of COVID-19 and how does it spread?
Updated on May 22, 2020
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), people with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported, ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness.
Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. People with these symptoms or combination of symptoms may have COVID-19:

Cough
Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
Fever
Chills
Muscle pain
Headache
Sore throat
New loss of taste or smell

 
This list is not all possible symptoms. Other less common symptoms have been reported, including gastrointestinal symptoms like nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.
The new coronavirus is spreading very easily and sustainably between people, including people who are not showing symptoms. The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person in these ways:

Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).
Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.

As the state reopens, it is critically important to wear face coverings, practice strict physical distancing, and wash hands frequently to continue to mitigate the further spread of COVID-19.
Can you get COVID-19 by contact with contaminated surfaces or objects?
It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.


How can I get tested for COVID-19?

Updated on May 22, 2020
 
There are several ways that Cambridge residents can get tested for COVID-19.  Please visit the City’s dedicated page on COVID-19 testing information in Cambridge. 
 
What should I do if I think I have symptoms of COVID-19?
Updated on May 22, 2020
If you or a family member develop symptoms of COVID-19—which include fever, sore throat, loss of sense of smell, cough, and/or shortness of breath—call your health care provider and tell them about your symptoms and your exposure. They will decide whether you need to be tested. If you are a Cambridge resident, you can get tested at the CHA East Cambridge Care Center without a medical referral. 
If you are not able to get tested, but believe you may have COVID-19, take the same precautions as if you had tested positive.
Keep in mind that there is no treatment nor vaccine for COVID-19. People who are mildly ill may be able to isolate and care for themselves at home.
If you have severe symptoms: Call 9-1-1 for an ambulance. The dispatcher should be alerted that you may have COVID-19 so that appropriate precautions can be taken. If someone is showing any of these signs, seek emergency medical care immediately:

Trouble breathing.
Persistent pain or pressure in the chest.
New confusion.
Inability to wake or stay awake.
Bluish lips or face.
Any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you.

What should I do if I'm home sick with COVID-19?

Updated on May 20, 2020
 
This information is adapted from CDC guidance available here. 
 
Stay home except to get medical care

Most people with COVID-19 have mild illness and can recover at home without medical care. Do not leave your home, except to get medical care. Do not visit public areas.
Take care of yourself. Get rest and stay hydrated. Take over-the-counter medicines, such as acetaminophen, to help you feel better.
Stay in touch with your doctor. Call before you get medical care. Be sure to get care if you have trouble breathing, or have any other emergency warning signs, or if you think it is an emergency.
Avoid public transportation, ride-sharing, or taxis.

 
Separate yourself from other people
As much as possible, stay in a specific room and away from other people and pets in your home. If possible, you should use a separate bathroom. If you need to be around other people or animals in or outside of the home, wear a cloth face covering.

Additional guidance is available for those living in close quarters and shared housing.
See COVID-19 and Animals if you have questions about pets.

 
Monitor your symptoms

Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, and shortness of breath but other symptoms may be present as well. Trouble breathing is a more serious symptom that means you should get medical attention.
Follow care instructions from your healthcare provider and local health department. Your local health authorities may give instructions on checking your symptoms and reporting information.

 
When to Seek Emergency Medical Attention
If someone is showing any of these signs, seek emergency medical care immediately:

Trouble breathing.
Persistent pain or pressure in the chest.
New confusion.
Inability to wake or stay awake.
Bluish lips or face.
Any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you.

 
If you are sick wear a cloth covering over your nose and mouth

You should wear a cloth face covering, over your nose and mouth if you must be around other people or animals, including pets (even at home).
You don’t need to wear the cloth face covering if you are alone. If you can’t put on a cloth face covering (because of trouble breathing, for example), cover your coughs and sneezes in some other way. Try to stay at least 6 feet away from other people. This will help protect the people around you.
Cloth face coverings should not be placed on young children under age 2 years, anyone who has trouble breathing, or anyone who is not able to remove the covering without help.

 
Clean your hands and cover coughs and sneezes

Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. This is especially important after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and before eating or preparing food.
If soap and water are not available, clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze, and throw away used tissues in a lined trash can.

 
Avoid sharing personal household items

Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels, or bedding with other people in your home.
Wash these items thoroughly after using them with soap and water or put in the dishwasher.

 
Clean all “high-touch” surfaces everyday

Clean and disinfect “high-touch” surfaces and items every day: This includes tables, doorknobs, light switches, handles, desks, toilets, faucets, sinks, and electronics.Let someone else clean and disinfect surfaces in common areas, but you should clean your bedroom and bathroom, if possible.
For more information, see the CDC’s Cleaning And Disinfecting Your Home When Someone Is Sick and Caring for Someone Sick at Home: Advice for Caregivers. 

 
Resources
The CDC has excellent guidance for caring for people at home who are sick with COVID-19.

What to Do If You Are Sick
COVID19 - Caring for someone at home
Cleaning And Disinfecting Your Home When Someone Is Sick

 



Slowing the Spread of COVID-19

Handwashing, Disinfecting, & Other Ways to Protect Yourself
Here are some tips to protect yourself from COVID-19 illness. There are more tips on the CDC website. Español | 中文

Wash your hands often for at least 20 seconds with soap and rub your hands until they are dry. If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol, covering all surfaces of your hands and rubbing them together until they feel dry.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe. Learn more
Cover your coughs and sneezes. Throw tissues away and clean your hands afterwards.
If you are planning to travel, check CDC's Coronavirus Disease 2019 Information for updates and guidance.

Physical (or Social) Distancing: Guidance & Tips
What is Physical Distancing?
Physical distancing—also known as social distancing—is about keeping a certain physical distance from other people. The goal of physical distancing is to slow the spread of the coronavirus. By slowing the spread, we have a chance to protect family and friends at greater risk for serious illness and the health care workers who care for people with COVID-19.
What You Can Do
For physical distancing to be effective, it is essential we all do our part. If we all start keeping a 6-foot distance from people we don’t live with, we may be able to slow the spread of COVID-19 in Cambridge.
The following tips are for people who are healthy:

Maintain a safe separation of at least 6 feet from others not in your household. 
Cancel in-person social gatherings, even those with just a few people.
Avoid crowds of any size.
Refrain from shaking hands, high fives, and hugs.
Avoid close contact with those who are sick. 
Limit unnecessary travel. 
Try to visit grocery stores and pharmacies when they are less crowded.

If you are sick with COVID-19, please follow the CDC’s guidelines to protect the people you live with and the community. 
Physical Distancing is Not Social Isolation

Physical distancing is about keeping a safe distance from other people—it does not mean social isolation. You can be social through social media, video chats/conferences, or by phone. You can also write letters or cards. Checking on friends, family, and neighbors is a great way to stay connected and be supportive of others who may be feeling alone or isolated.
Physical distancing does not mean you cannot leave your home. When going outside, be sure to avoid crowds and maintain a safe separation of at least 6 feet from others. 
Walking outside is a good way to exercise and prevent stress. Remember, if you walk or exercise with someone who is not a household member, keep 6-feet apart from each other.

Resources on Physical Distancing

Should kids go on playdates? Are playgrounds safe? Here’s what pediatricians are saying. Bay State Parent, March 25
Information on COVID-19 for Survivors, Communities, and DV/SA Programs Futures Without Violence

What Cambridge Employers Can Do About Physical Distancing
On March 23, Governor Charlie Baker issued a stay-at-home advisory through April 7, asking all non-essential businesses to stop in-person operations.
For workers who must be physically present in a workplace, such as health care and long-term care workers, public safety personnel, pharmacy, and supermarket employees, employers can help ensure their safety by:

Strongly discouraging older employees (age 60+) and those with chronic health conditions from coming into the workplace.
Following recommendations for social distancing, such as keeping an approximate 6-foot distance from other people and recognizing that this will not be achievable in all settings. 
Ensuring that soap/sanitizers are available and that participants engage in proper handwashing and hand-hygiene practices.
Ensuring that cleaning and disinfection guidelines for COVID-19 are followed.




Taking Care of Yourself & Loved Ones

How can I support my mental health/wellness & access recovery services?
The outbreak of COVID-19 may be stressful for people and communities. Fear and anxiety about a disease can be overwhelming and cause strong emotions in adults and children. It is important to remember that everyone reacts differently to stressful situations and that taking care of your mental health is not a sign of weakness. Taking care of your emotional health during an emergency will help you think clearly and react to the urgent needs to protect yourself and your loved ones.
Here are some things you can do to support yourself. You can learn more on the CDC site.

Take care of your body. Take deep breaths, stretch, or meditate. Try to eat healthy, well-balanced meals, exercise regularly, get plenty of sleep, and avoid alcohol and drugs.
Avoid excessive exposure to media coverage of COVID-19. It can be upsetting to hear about the crisis repeatedly. Try to do enjoyable activities and return to normal life as much as possible and check for updates between breaks.
Connect with others. Share your concerns and how you are feeling with a friend or family member. Maintain healthy relationships.
Seek help when needed. If distress impacts activities of your daily life for several days or weeks, talk to a counselor, doctor, or clergy member. You can also contact the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) helpline at 1-800-985-5990 or text TalkWithUs to 66746 to connect with a trained crisis counselor. For Spanish speakers, call 1-800-985-5990 and press "2" or text Hablanos to 66746. Español

 
Resources on Mental Health, Recovery Services, and Mental Wellness

Grayken Center for Addiction (Boston Medical Center): COVID-19 Recovery Resources
Mental Health America: Mental Health And COVID-19 – Information And Resources
National Alliance on Mental Illness: COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Information and Resources

 
Virtual Support Meetings

Find a list of virtual recovery meetings by time of day and day of week
Additional recovery meeting information, online apps, and more can be found on the Grayken Center for Addiction website here.

How you can talk to children about COVID-19
Reassure your children that they are safe. Try to keep information simple and remind them that health and school officials are working hard to keep everyone safe and healthy.
Let them know it is ok if they feel upset. Share with them how you deal with your own stress so that they can learn how to cope from you.
You can also help your children find positive ways to express feelings such as fear and sadness. Sometimes engaging in a creative activity, such as playing and drawing, can help this process. Children may feel relieved if they can express and communicate their disturbing feelings in a safe and supportive environment.
More Tips

Be a role model. Take breaks, get plenty of sleep, exercise, and eat well. Connect with your friends and family members online or over the phone. Rely on your social support system.
Get children into a handwashing habit. Also remind them to cough or sneeze into a tissue or their elbow, then throw the tissue into the trash.
Avoid language that might blame others and lead to stigma. Remember that viruses can make anyone sick, regardless of a person’s race or ethnicity. Avoid making assumptions about who might have COVID-19.

Resources for Parents and Children

Local Resources for Cambridge Families (Cambridge Let’s Talk!) https://letstalkcambridge.org/covid-19-local-resources/
Talking with children about Coronavirus Disease (CDC) https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/talking-with-children.html





Additional Resources

MBTA COVID-19 Updates & Information
Reducing Stigma and Building Resilience
Nursing Home Family Resource Line
Massachusetts Dept. of Public Health COVID-19 Long Term Care Facility Staffing Team Intake
Broad Institute COVID-19 Rapid Testing Pilot Program Information
Wash Your Hands to Protect Yourself & Your Community
Printable Fact Sheets





Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/Reopening


Reopening Cambridge
The City of Cambridge and Commonwealth of Massachusetts are working to safely reopen the economy, get people back to work, and ease social restrictions while minimizing the health impacts of COVID-19. Information on plans, guidelines, and guidance for different sectors of the economy will be available here and updated often. The City of Cambridge will release further information on City-specific orders that will supplement the State’s recommendations when necessary. Cambridge businesses planning to reopen must adhere to all Massachusetts regulations, in addition to any additional guidance issued by the City. Interested in learning which Cambridge businesses are opening, offer outdoor dining, etc? View Business List

Updates

(6/25/20) Commonwealth of Massachusetts releases Initial Fall School Reopening Guidance
(6/24/20) Cambridge Basketball Courts, Playgrounds, Tot Lots, and Water Play Structures to Reopen on Monday, June 29
(6/22/20) City of Cambridge Announces Street Changes to Increase Outdoor Dining Options
(6/19/20) Step Two of Phase II of Reopening Massachusetts Set to Begin on June 22, including Indoor Table Service at Restaurants.
(6/16/20) Cambridge Public Health Department shares Guidance for Cambridge Business Managers Regarding Local Board of Health Reporting for COVID-19
(6/14/20) City of Cambridge departments to offer in-person services by appointment only beginning week of June 15
(6/6/20) Applications for Temporary Extension of Licensed Premises to Outdoor Area Due to COVID-19 in Cambridge are now available
(6/6/20) Baker-Polito Administration Initiates Transition to Second Phase of Four-Phase Approach
(6/1/20) Governor Baker Issues Executive Order in Advance of Phase II
(5/29/20) Safety Standards and Checklists for Restaurants and Operators of Lodgings from the State have been posted under Phase 2 on the City's Reopening page
(5/24/20) A new City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening is now available, providing staff contact information for members of the public to reach out to with questions/help reopening their establishment
(5/20/20) City of Cambridge releases Amended Temporary Emergency Construction Order
(5/20/20) Read a message from the Cambridge City Manager to Cambridge Business Owners asking them to delay the opening of office spaces until at least June 1
(5/18/20) Cambridge Officials Reviewing State Plan as City Finalizes Reopening Strategy
(5/18/20) Baker-Polito Administration Initiates Transition to First Phase of Four-Phase Approach
(5/18/20) Governor Baker releases Reopening MA Report
(5/11/20) Baker-Polito Administration Announces Four-Phase Approach to Reopening and Publishes Mandatory Workplace Safety Standards



Sector-Specific Plans & Guidelines
Below is not an exhaustive list and more detailed information from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts can be found here.


Phase 1

Manufacturing - Eligible to Reopen May 18, 2020

Eligible to reopen May 18, 2020
View Safety Standards for Manufacturing (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Higher Education - Eligible to Reopen May 25, 2020
Higher education institutions began repopulating laboratory and/or clinical settings that may already be accustomed to following strict protocols for infection control. In addition, small numbers of students, staff and faculty may return to campus in this phase as-needed to help prepare for repopulation across future phases. Learn more.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Places of Worship - Eligible to Reopen May 18, 2020

Eligible to reopen on May 18, 2020.
View Safety Standards for Places of Worship (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Car Washes - Eligible to Reopen May 25, 2020

Eligible to reopen May 25, 2020
View Safety Standards for Car Washes(Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Construction - Phased Reopening Begins in Cambridge May 25, 2020

Phased Reopening Begins in Cambridge on May 25, 2020
View Safety Standards for Construction (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
The City of Cambridge will expand currently allowed construction activity in the City in four phases*:

Phase 1, beginning May 25, will add site safety prep work for projects previously permitted by Inspectional Services (ISD) and Public Works (DPW). Forthcoming amendments to the City’s Temporary Emergency Construction Order issued on March 18 will modify the definition of essential construction to include work associated with COVID-19 restaurant modification needed to allow them to safely reopen;
Phase 2, beginning on June 1, will add horizontal construction, city building projects, 100% affordable housing developments, larger buildings (over 25,000 square feet) previously permitted by ISD or DPW;
Phase 3, beginning on June 15, will add all remaining existing construction previously permitted by ISD and DPW;
Phase 4a, beginning on June 22, will add new permits for horizontal construction, roof, solar, siding, asbestos, and trade permits including plumbing, gas, mechanical, sheet metal, electrical and sprinkler. Permits may be submitted, and pre-reviews will occur at any time, but permits will not be formally accepted or issued until this date; and
Phase 4b, beginning June 29, will add new Building Permits (addition/alteration, new construction, demolition).  Permits may be submitted, and pre-reviews will occur at any time, but permits will not be formally accepted or issued until this date.

*Updated June 16, 2020.
 
Important City Guidelines & Information:

 City of Cambridge Amended Temporary Emergency Construction Order (PDF)
Links to documents to download and post at sites:
    
Handwashing signage
Stay Home When Sick signage

English
Spanish


Massachusetts Compliance Attestation poster



 
General Retail - Eligible to Reopen May 25, 2020

Eligible to reopen May 25, 2020
Retail (such as clothing stores, toy stores, jewelry stores, nurseries and garden centers that don’t sell food products, adult use cannabis stores)
For curbside pickup and delivery only.
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
Hair Salons / Barbershops - Eligible to Reopen May 25, 2020

Eligible to reopen May 25, 2020
View Safety Standards for Hair Salons and Barbershops (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
Important City Information:

Read the City of Cambridge Order Rescinding the Temporary Emergency Order by the Commissioner of Public Health and City Manager to Close All Tanning, Nail Salons, Barber Shops, etc.

Laboratories - Eligible to Reopen May 25, 2020

Eligible to reopen May 25, 2020
View Safety Standards for Laboratories (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Pet Grooming - Eligible to Reopen May 25, 2020

Eligible to reopen May 25, 2020
View Safety Standards for Pet Grooming Services(Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Office Spaces - Eligible to Reopen May 25, 2020; Delay until June 1 Requested in Cambridge

Eligible to reopen May 25, 2020; delay until June 1 requested in Cambridge
View Safety Standards for Office Spaces(Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
Important City Information:

Read a message from the Cambridge City Manager to Cambridge Business Owners asking them to delay the opening of office spaces until at least June 1




Phase 2

Beer gardens/breweries/wineries/distilleries (with seated food service) - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020

View Safety Standards for Restaurants (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
Important Information & Documents

Temporary Extension of Licensed Premises to Outdoor Area Due to COVID-19 Application (City of Cambridge)
Order Clarifying the Progression of the Commonwealth's Phased Workplace Re-Opening Plan and Authorizing Certain Re-Open Preparations at Phase II Workplaces
Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission Advisory Regarding Local Licensing Authorities' Approval of Outdoor Seating
Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission Advisory Regarding Guidelines for Extension of Premises to Patio and Outdoor Areas

Child and youth serving programs - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
On June 1, 2020, the Massachusetts Department of Early Education and Care (EEC) released the Minimum Requirements for Health and Safety, which sets forth the minimum requirements that programs must meet in order to reopen. 
 
The minimum requirements apply to all child and youth serving programs, including child care programs regulated by EEC, recreational camps regulated by DPH, and municipal or recreational youth programs not traditionally licensed as camps that are seeking to operate during the phased plan of Reopening Massachusetts. Note: Residential camps and other overnight stays are not permitted to open until further notice. Learn more.
 
Important Information & Documents

Massachusetts Child and Youth Serving Programs Reopen Approach -Minimum Requirements for Health and Safety (Mass.gov)
Massachusetts Department of Early Education and Care Reopen Approach - FAQs (Mass.gov)

Driving and flight schools - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
Behind the wheel training.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Funeral Homes - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
40% capacity limit; one service at a time in the facility.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
Important Information & Documents:

Read a message from the Cambridge City Manager to Cambridge Funeral Home Directors

Higher education (students, staff and faculty for limited purposes) - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
Higher education institutions may begin to allow students, staff and faculty to return to campus for the limited purposes of permitting students to complete a degree, program, or prerequisite for employment, or other similar requirement for completion, for summer youth programming including athletic facilities, and any necessary supporting services. Learn more.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

In home installations - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
Non construction related – e.g., carpet installation, home theaters, security systems.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Hotels, motels, and other lodging businesses - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
No events, functions, or meetings.

View Safety Standards for Operators of Lodgings (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
Important Information & Documents:

Read a message from the Cambridge City Manager to Cambridge Short Term Rental Operators

Non-athletic instructional classes in arts / education / life skills - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
Youths under 18 years of age, in groups of fewer than 10.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Occupational Schools and Testing Centers - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
During Phase II of the Commonwealth’s Reopening Plan, occupational schools and testing centers are permitted to open their brick-and-mortar premises to the public for the limited purposes of permitting students to complete a degree, program, or prerequisite for employment, or other similar requirement for completion. Learn more.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Personal services without close personal contact - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020
Such as home cleaning, photography, window washing, career coaching and education tutoring.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Restaurants: outdoor seating - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020; Indoor table service - Eligible to Reopen June 22

View Safety Standards for Restaurants (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
Important Information & Documents

Temporary Extension of Licensed Premises to Outdoor Area Due to COVID-19 Application (City of Cambridge)
ABCC Advisory Regarding Restuarants Commencing Outdoor Table Service of Alcohol
Order Clarifying the Progression of the Commonwealth's Phased Workplace Re-Opening Plan and Authorizing Certain Re-Open Preparations at Phase II Workplaces
Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission Advisory Regarding Local Licensing Authorities' Approval of Outdoor Seating
Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission Advisory Regarding Guidelines for Extension of Premises to Patio and Outdoor Areas

 
Retail businesses: browsing inside stores - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020

View Safety Standards for Retail Businesses (Mass.gov)
View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

 
Important Information & Documents:

Read a message from the Cambridge City Manager to Cambridge Retail Businesses

Warehouse and distribution centers - Eligible to Reopen June 8, 2020

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Close Contact Personal Services - Eligible to Reopen June 22
Such as massage therapy, nail salons, tattoo parlors, electrolysis studios

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment

Personal Trainers - Eligible to Reopen June 22
Appointment-only training with only one customer (or two from the same household) allowed in the facility at a time.

View Full Business List by category and reopening date (Mass.gov)
View City of Cambridge Contact List for Reopening by category showing who to contact in which department for questions/help reopening your establishment




Reopening K-12 Schools

Initial Fall School Reopening Guidance
On June 25, 2020, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts released its Initial Fall School Reopening Guidance.
View Initial Fall School Reopening Guidance (Mass.gov)
Health and safety requirements and related guidance for in-person learning
The following is an excerpt from the Initial Fall School Reopening Guidance released on June 25, 2020 by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
 
At this time, these are the health and safety practices that will enable the safe reopening of schools for in-person learning this fall. These requirements will be modified as needed during the summer and into the fall.  In addition to required practices, we have also included guidance on best practices where applicable.
 
As general background, COVID-19 spreads when people are in relatively close proximity, through respiratory droplets generated through coughing, sneezing, or talking to an infected person. Among the most effective preventive measures – when used consistently and in combination – are masks/face coverings, physical distancing, handwashing, and cleaning frequently touched surfaces.[i]
 
Masks/face coverings: As the primary route of transmission for COVID-19 is respiratory,[ii] [iii] [iv] masks or face coverings are among the most critical components of risk reduction.[v] [vi] [vii] Masks/face coverings protect the general public against COVID-19 infection,[viii] with a recent retrospective study estimating near 80% effectiveness in reducing COVID-19 transmission, especially when worn prior to symptom onset.[ix] In the United States, states advising face masks/face coverings be worn in public saw a decline in their COVID-19 growth rates,[x] and community-wide mask/face covering usage contributed to control of COVID-19 in Hong Kong.[xi] At this time, our initial requirements and related guidance are as follows:

Students in grade 2 and above are required to wear a mask/face covering that covers their nose and mouth. Students in kindergarten and grade 1 should be encouraged to wear a mask/face covering.[xii] Face shields may be an option for those students with medical, behavioral, or other challenges who are unable to wear masks/face coverings. Transparent masks may be the best option for both teachers and students in classes for deaf and hard of hearing students. They may also be useful for teachers and younger students who rely on visual / facial cues.
Adults, including educators and staff, are required to wear masks/face coverings. 
Exceptions to mask/face covering requirements must be made for those for whom it is not possible due to medical conditions, disability impact, or other health or safety factors.
Mask breaks should occur throughout the day.[xiii] Breaks should occur when students can be six feet apart and ideally outside or at least with the windows open. Further guidance on mask breaks including duration and frequency will be forthcoming, as well as more information about properly removing and putting on masks. 
Masks/face coverings should be provided by the student/family, but extra disposable face masks should be made available by the school for students who need them. Reusable masks/face coverings provided by families should be washed by families daily. Districts and schools with families experiencing financial hardship and unable to afford masks/face coverings should endeavor to provide masks for students through grant funds described earlier in this document. 
Masks/face coverings are required to be worn by everyone on the bus during school bus transportation.
Transparent face coverings provide the opportunity for more visual cues and should be especially considered as an alternative for younger students, students who are deaf and hard of hearing, and their teachers.

 
Physical distancing: Physical distancing is another important practice that helps mitigate transmission of the virus. While the U.S. federal CDC has recommended maintaining a physical distance of six feet between individuals,[xiv] the World Health Organization’s guidance states approximately three feet.[xv] There is no precise threshold for safety; indeed, studies suggest that physical distancing of three feet or more leads to reduced transmission, with additional distance providing additional protection. [xvi] [xvii] For instance, in a study of household transmission in China, keeping at least three feet of distance was associated with one-fourth the number of transmissions.[xviii] It is important to note that six feet distancing is emphasized in public health advisories especially when no mask/face covering is worn.
 
We encourage districts and schools to aim for six feet of distance between individuals where feasible. At the same time, a minimum physical distance of three feet has been established when combined with the other measures outlined in this list of safety requirements. Because of the reduced susceptibility in children and lower apparent rates of transmission, establishing a minimum physical distance of three feet is informed by evidence and balances the lower risk of COVID-19 transmission and the overarching benefits of in-person school.
 
View full Initial Fall School Reopening Guidance (Mass.gov)



 
[i] CDC, How COVID-19 spreads. (2020, June 16). Available at https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/how-covid-spreads.html
[ii] Zhang, Renyi, et al. "Identifying airborne transmission as the dominant route for the spread of COVID-19." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (2020).
[iii] CDC., et al. "Coronavirus Disease 2019 in Children—United States, February 12–April 2, 2020." Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 69.14 (2020): 422. 
[iv] World Health Organization. Modes of transmission of virus causing COVID-19: implications for IPC precaution recommendations: scientific brief, 27 March 2020. No. WHO/2019-nCoV/Sci_Brief/Transmission_modes/2020.1. World Health Organization, 2020. Available at: https://www.who.int/news-room/commentaries/detail/modes-of-transmission-of-virus-causing-covid-19-implications-for-ipc-precaution-recommendations 
[v] Wang, Y., Tian, H., Zhang, L., Zhang, M., Guo, D., Wu, W., ... & Liu, B. (2020). Reduction of secondary transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in households by face mask use, disinfection and social distancing: a cohort study in Beijing, China. BMJ Global Health, 5(5), e002794. Available at https://gh.bmj.com/content/bmjgh/5/5/e002794.full.pdf
[vi] Lyu, W. and Wehby, G. L.  (2020). Community Use Of Face Masks And COVID-19: Evidence From A Natural Experiment Of State Mandates In The US. Health Affairs. Available at https://doi.org/10.1377/hlthaff.2020.00818
[vii] Cheng, V. C., Wong, S. C., Chuang, V. W., So, S. Y., Chen, J. H., Sridhar, S., ... & Yuen, K. Y. (2020). The role of community-wide wearing of face mask for control of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic due to SARS-CoV-2. Journal of Infection. Available at https://www.journalofinfection.com/article/S0163-4453(20)30235-8/pdf
[viii] Chu, D.K., Akl, E.A., Duda S., Solo K., Yaacoub S., Schunemann H.J. (2020)  Physical distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent person-to-person transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis.  The Lancet
[ix] Wang, Y., Tian, H., Zhang, L., Zhang, M., Guo, D., Wu, W., ... & Liu, B. (2020). Reduction of secondary transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in households by face mask use, disinfection and social distancing: a cohort study in Beijing, China. BMJ Global Health, 5(5), e002794. Available at https://gh.bmj.com/content/bmjgh/5/5/e002794.full.pdf 
[x] Lyu, W. and Wehby, G. L.  (2020). Community Use Of Face Masks And COVID-19: Evidence From A Natural Experiment Of State Mandates In The US. Health Affairs. Available at https://doi.org/10.1377/hlthaff.2020.00818
[xi] Cheng, V. C., Wong, S. C., Chuang, V. W., So, S. Y., Chen, J. H., Sridhar, S., ... & Yuen, K. Y. (2020). The role of community-wide wearing of face mask for control of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic due to SARS-CoV-2. Journal of Infection. Available at https://www.journalofinfection.com/article/S0163-4453(20)30235-8/pdf
[xii] http://www.sickkids.ca/PDFs/About-SickKids/81407-COVID19-Recommendations-for-School-Reopening-SickKids.pdf (if masks are worn incorrectly, they may increase infection risk). See also: https://www.publichealthontario.ca/-/media/documents/ncov/covid-wwksf/what-we-know-public-masks-apr-7-2020.pdf?la=en 
[xiii] Chu, D.K., Akl, E.A., Duda S., Solo K., Yaacoub S., Schunemann H.J. (2020)  Physical distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent person-to-person transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis.  The Lancet (the challenges of constant mask wearing include “frequent discomfort”)
[xiv] CDC, Social Distancing, Quarantine, and Isolation. (2020, May 6). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/social-distancing.html 
[xv] WHO, Considerations for school-related public health measures in the context of COVID-19. (2020, May 10). Available at https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/considerations-for-school-related-public-health-measures-in-the-context-of-covid-19
[xvi] Chu, D.K., Akl, E.A., Duda S., Solo K., Yaacoub S., Schunemann H.J. (2020)  Physical distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent person-to-person transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis.  The Lancet
[xvii] Zhang, J., Litvinova, M., Liang, Y., Wang, Y., Wang, W., Zhao, S., ... & Ajelli, M. (2020). Changes in contact patterns shape the dynamics of the COVID-19 outbreak in China. Science. Available at https://science.sciencemag.org/content/early/2020/05/04/science.abb8001
[xviii] Wang, Y., Tian, H., Zhang, L., Zhang, M., Guo, D., Wu, W., ... & Liu, B. (2020). Reduction of secondary transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in households by face mask use, disinfection and social distancing: a cohort study in Beijing, China. BMJ Global Health, 5(5), e002794. Available at https://gh.bmj.com/content/bmjgh/5/5/e002794.full.pdf





News

Keep in Touch with the Latest City Information








City of Cambridge Announces Street Changes to Increase Outdoor Dining Options

This work expands on the outdoor dining spaces that previously existed in Cambridge before COVID-19 and is made possible by increased flexibility in the State’s rules relative to permitting outdoor dining areas. 










Step Two of Phase II of Reopening Massachusetts Set to Begin on June 22

Step Two of Phase II of the Commonwealth’s four-phase reopening plan, Reopening Massachusetts, will begin on Monday, June 22 to allow additional industries to resume operations under sector-specific guidelines.







Reopening Massachusetts Plan Released

The Baker-Polito Administration released a comprehensive plan to safely reopen the Massachusetts economy, get people back to work, and ease social restrictions while minimizing the health impacts of COVID-19





View All



General Guidance

The Commonwealth has released information to help businesses meet the self-certification requirement to reopen. All businesses must meet these requirements before reopening.

Mandatory Safety Standards for Workplaces (Mass.gov)
COVID-19 Control Plan template (Mass.gov)
Compliance Attestation poster (Mass.gov)
Employer Guidance poster (Mass.gov)
Employee Guidance poster (Mass.gov)


Guidance for Industries on the Reopening Plan - May 18, 2020 (Mass.gov)
Guidance for Cambridge Business Managers Regarding Local Board of Health Reporting for COVID-19



Resources & Information

Which Business Are Open in Cambridge?
When Can My Business Reopen? (Mass.gov)
Four-Phase Approach (Mass.gov)
MBTA COVID-19 Updates & Information
Emergency Order Requiring the Use of Face Coverings
Guidance for Residents on Wearing Face Coverings During COVID-19
Guidance for Large Residential & Multi-unit Properties
Hygiene Guidance for Businesses & Public Offices
Hygiene, Social Distancing, & Food Waste Guidance for Restaurants & Food Markets
Guidance for Taking Care of Your Mental Health
Dental Emergency Guidance
Tips for Staying Safe while Exercising & Playing Outside
Tips for Staying Safe while Grocery Shopping & Ordering Take-Out Food





Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/Departments


City Departments & Offices

As City of Cambridge buildings, departments, and services plan for a safe and limited reopening to the public, the following is the most up-to-date information about each department and how to get in touch with them. When visiting a City building for an appointment, you should wear face coverings, maintain 6 feet for social distancing, and wash your hands/use hand sanitizer upon entering and exiting the building. City staff will also be wearing face coverings and washing their hands frequently.

Remember that while departments are resuming certain services by in-person appointment on limited days, most services can be provided online or over the telephone Monday through Thursday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. You can contact the departments below before making an appointment, to see if the services you need can be provided electronically. A complete listing of City Departments and their contact information can be found here.

Most Requested



Traffic, Parking + Transportation
The Traffic, Parking, and Transportation will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, Monday through Thursday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., for select services. Details about how to access these services online or book an in-person appointment are available on our street occupancy permit (moving vans, moving crates, and tool trucks), parking ticket, and parking permit (residents and visitors) pages. Call 617-349-4700 (voice), 711 (relay), or email tpt@cambridgema.gov for assistance.
Learn More


City Clerk's Office
The City Clerk’s Office is accepting applications to marry by appointment, and appointments for other services, on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Appointments to marry can be made by calling 617-349-4260. Please be aware that due to social distancing requirements, only the parties to the marriage will be allowed in the office during their appointment. Appointments for other Clerk’s Office services can be made online, by phone or by email at cityclerk@cambridgema.gov. All appointments will be scheduled in 30-minute increments. If you miss your appointment, you will have to reschedule for another day.
Learn More


Library
Contactless holds pickup is available at the Main Library. Request items and schedule pickup appointments online, by phone at 617-349-4040 or by email at library@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More



Department Information
Don't see what you're looking for? Call 617-349-4300 or email 311@cambridgema.gov


Animal Commission
The Animal Control Office will be open to members of the public by appointment only on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. to obtain a dog license, answer other regulatory questions, or provide general assistance. Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4376 or by email at animalcommission@cambridgema.gov. Appointments will be scheduled in 30-minute increments. If you miss your appointment, you will have to reschedule for another day.
Learn More


Assessing Department
The Assessing Department will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Appointments are available for residential exemptions, personal exemptions, excise tax abatements, and other services. Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4343 or by email at assessors@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More


City Clerk's Office
The City Clerk’s Office is accepting applications to marry by appointment, and appointments for other services, on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Appointments to marry can be made by calling 617-349-4260. Please be aware that due to social distancing requirements, only the parties to the marriage will be allowed in the office during their appointment. Appointments for other Clerk’s Office services can be made online, by phone or by email at cityclerk@cambridgema.gov. All appointments will be scheduled in 30-minute increments. If you miss your appointment, you will have to reschedule for another day.
Learn More


City Manager's Office
The City Manager's Office will be open to the public, by appointment only, on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.  Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4300 or by email at citymanager@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More


Community Development
CDD is open to the public, by appointment only, on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Appointments are available for affordable housing, zoning, business and entrepreneurship, Cambridge Energy Alliance, or general planning matters. If you need to meet with a specific person, please contact them directly to schedule an appointment. Housing appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4622 or by email at housing@cambridgema.gov. Appointments for all other CDD matters can be made by phone at 617-349-4600 or by email at CDDat344@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More


Consumers' Council
The Consumers' Council will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Appointments can be made online, by phone at 617-349-6150, or by email at consumer@cambridgema.gov. Appointments by phone or email are strongly encouraged to ensure you are connected with the appropriate services.
Learn More


Election Commission
The Election Commission will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Appointments are available for voter registration, resident letters, Annual City Census and all other election related matters. Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4361 or by email at elections@cambridgema.gov. Appointments will be scheduled in 30-minute increments. If you miss your appointment, you will need to reschedule.
Learn More


Finance Department
The Finance Department will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Appointments are available for tax title services, refund processing, registry hold releases, and other matters. Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4220 or by email at treasurer@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More


Fire Prevention Bureau
Beginning Monday, June 29, the Fire Prevention Bureau will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, Tuesday and Thursday from 8 to 10 a.m. and 2 to 4 p.m. to conduct plan reviews and other Fire Prevention related matters. Appointments are also available for on-site project completion inspections on Tuesday and Thursday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Appointments can be made by calling 617-349-4921 or emailing fprev@cambridgefire.org.
Learn More


Historical Commission
The Historical Commission will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. for permitting and other regulatory questions, limited research assistance, and other general assistance. Appointments can be made online, by phone at 617-349-4683 or by email at histcomm@cambridgema.gov. Please provide the property address related to your appointment request or the nature of your regulatory question so that we can make arrangements with the appropriate staff person. Research questions that would require an appointment time longer than 30 minutes will continue to be handled by phone and email.
Learn More


Inspectional Services
Inspectional Services will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Appointments are available with building inspectors, sanitary inspectors, housing inspectors, and East and West Cambridge Trade Inspectors, as well as for general administration and zoning services (researching building files, submitting payment or documents, etc.).  Appointments can be made online, by phone at 617-349-6100, or by email at isd@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More


Library
Contactless holds pickup is available at the Main Library. Request items and schedule pickup appointments online, by phone at 617-349-4040 or by email at library@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More


License Commission
The License Commission will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Appointments are available for: new hackney, jitney or livery drivers; people who have to pay license or application fees in cash; or other matters. Appointments can be made online, by phone at 617-349-6140, or by email at license@cambridgema.gov. Appointments by phone or email are strongly encouraged to ensure you are connected with the appropriate services.   
Learn More


Personnel Department
The Personnel Department will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Appointments are available for job inquiries, seasonal lottery processing, benefits questions, or other matters.  Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4332 or by email at employment@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More


Police Records Unit
Beginning Monday, June 29, the Cambridge Police Records Unit will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. for License to Carry (LTC) renewals and general assistance.  Please note that fingerprint services for new LTC applications are not yet available.  Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-3336 or by email RecordsE-Mail@cambridgepolice.org.
Learn More


Public Works Department
DPW offices at 147 Hampshire St. are open to the public, by appointment only, on Mondays and Thursdays from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4800 or by email at theworks@cambridgema.gov. Individual staff are also available for appointments outside of these hours as needed; please contact the office with the details of your issue, and we will coordinate with the appropriate staff member. Many DPW services can be provided online, and DPW phones are staffed 24/7 to respond to urgent concerns.
Learn More


Traffic, Parking + Transportation
The Traffic, Parking, and Transportation will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, Monday through Thursday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., for select services. Details about how to access these services online or book an in-person appointment are available on our street occupancy permit (moving vans, moving crates, and tool trucks), parking ticket, and parking permit (residents and visitors) pages. Call 617-349-4700 (voice), 711 (relay), or email tpt@cambridgema.gov for assistance.
Learn More


Veterans Services
The Veterans Services Department will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. for various services. Please note that Veterans Life and Recreation Center workshops, public meetings, and networking events are not yet available. Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4760 or by email at veterans@cambridgema.gov, and will be scheduled in 30-60 minute increments. If you miss your appointment, you will need to reschedule. Veterans in crisis should call 911, the SAVE Team at 800-273-8253, or go to their nearest emergency department.
Learn More


Water Department
The Cambridge Water Department will be open to members of the public, by appointment only, on Mondays and Thursdays from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., for various services. Details about Residential Water Testing, Water Construction Permits, Hydrant Use Permits, Backflow Permits and Water Meter Replacement are available on our website.  Appointments can be made by phone at 617-349-4770 or by email at CWD@cambridgema.gov.
Learn More





Book an Appointment Online:

Parking Ticket Payments
Parking Permit Applications
Library Contactless Holds Pickup
New Hackney License
New Jitney License
New Livery License
Building Inspector Appointment
Sanitary Inspector Appointment
Zoning & Administration Appointment
Housing Inspector Appointment
East Cambridge Trade Inspector Appointment
West Cambridge Trade Inspector Appointment
Historical Commission Permitting and Regulatory Questions
Consumers' Council 




Frequently Asked Questions

What if I don't see information about the department I need?
Don't see appointment or in-person contact information about a department you need to do business with? With the safety of residents and City staff our top priority, the City is moving forward with a phased reopening approach and more departments will begin reopening to the public once it is safe to do so. In the meantime, a list of City Departments and their contact information can be found here. Many services can be provided online or over the telephone. You can also call 617-349-4000 or email 311@cambridgema.gov and someone will get back to you.
What should I do before arriving for my appointment?
Before you arrive – Self-Screen for COVID-19 Symptoms or Exposure
If you answer "yes" to any of the following three questions, do not come to our offices. Contact us to let us know that you cannot make your appointment.

Have you had flu-like symptoms, signs of a fever, a measured temperature above 100.3 degrees or greater, a cough, or shortness of breath within the past 48 hours?
Have you had “Close Contact,” with an individual diagnosed with COVID-19 or exhibiting flu-like symptoms in the past 48 hours? (The CDC defines “Close Contact” as: a) being within 6 feet of a person with confirmed COVID-19 for 15 minutes or more, or b) having unprotected direct contact with secretions or excretions of a person with confirmed COVID-19.)
Are you currently under any instructions/request to self-isolate or quarantine by your doctor or a local public health official? 

What do I do when I arrive for my appointment?
When visiting a City building, you should wear a face covering, maintain 6 feet for social distancing, and wash your hands/use hand sanitizer upon entering and exiting the building. Hand sanitizer stations will be available. City staff will also be wearing face coverings and washing their hands frequently.
Please do not arrive early. When you arrive, the Police Officer or a staff person at the building entry desk will let you in. They will verify that you have an appointment in the building, log your contact information, and direct you to where you need to go. 
Who can come to my appointment?
Please be advised that due to social distancing requirements, only the person with the appointment will be allowed in the office during the scheduled appointment (unless for a Marriage License where both parties must be present at the City Clerk’s Office). 

Those with appointments who may have children they need to bring with them, or special needs requiring assistance from a family member/caregiver to ensure they can safely attend their appointment, should notify the department they are visiting in advance so that appropriate accommodations can be made to ensure proper social distancing practices.
How do I access City Hall?
The front entrance of City Hall is currently closed.  If you have an appointment at City Hall, please enter and exit the building through the accessible entrance at the rear of City Hall, off Dorothy “Dottie” Doyle Way.  






Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/services


City Services
City Offices

City of Cambridge municipal buildings are closed to the public, except for departments offering in-person assistance by appointment only.
With City offices closed to the public, critical City services continue, and there are also some City services available for residents to access online.

Events and Programs

Virtual programming for Cambridge seniors is available from the Council on Aging
The Department of Human Service Programs will offer free Online/Offline Summer 2020 Programming to Cambridge youth in grades K-8. Registration opens Monday, June 22.
All City-sponsored community events, athletic events, events permitted for the use of City parks or other City-sponsored public gatherings will be cancelled through July 1, 2020 or postponed to a later date. All prior approvals for Special Events for the month of June are being revoked
Starting June 16, the Cambridge Planning Board will hold meetings with remote participation

Parks

Parks, Community Gardens, and Athletic Fields – open for passive use

Community Garden Guidance During COVID-19


Golf Course – open by reservation only, with restrictions
Tennis Courts – open
Dog Parks – open
Riverbend Park  – open on Saturdays and Sundays
Basketball Courts – opening Monday, June 29 for non-contact drills only. No pickup games or scrimmages allowed.
Tot Lots, Playgrounds, and Play Structures – opening Monday, June 29
Water Play Features – water being turned on beginning on Monday, June 29. As the Public Works Department works to get water turned on at all locations, there may be some delays before all water play structures are fully operational.
Gold Star Pool –remains closed while under construction. Tentative completion date of mid-August.
Grass mowing and more extensive parks cleanup began June 1.

Street Cleaning

Street cleaning has resumed in the City of Cambridge. Beginning Wednesday, July 1st, street cleaning parking restrictions will be enforced. To sign up for reminders via email and text, please visit cambridgema.gov/subscribe.

Traffic & Parking

2019 Resident and Visitor Parking Permits, which were due to expire on March 31, 2020, will continue to be honored until further notice. Cambridge residents who have not yet applied for 2020 Parking Permits are encouraged to submit their Parking Permit application(s) as soon as possible. Information about how to apply for or renew Parking Permits is available at cambridgema.gov/parking-permits.
On June 5, the Traffic, Parking, and Transportation Department announced that all parking regulations, including meter payment requirements, will be in effect starting June 15.
All parking ticket disputes and hearings are currently on hold, and staff will resume reviewing disputes and holding hearings once offices re-open.
Contact parkingservices@cambridgema.gov with questions about permits, tickets, disputes, and/or hearings.

Solid Waste

Trash, Recycling, Compost, and Yard Waste collection remain on schedule. Please note, that in order to comply with social distancing practices, Public Works has had to limit the number of passengers in trucks. This means limited capacity for curbside collections. For this reason, we will be collecting compost bins with regular trash collection. Our Zero Waste goals are important to us, but employee and public safety comes first. We are asking that residents continue to place food scraps in the lockable GREEN BIN to protect against rodents. We will resume normal collection services as soon as we are able to do so safely.
Drop-off compost at Public Works is OPEN and will not be collected as trash. It is located behind DPW (147 Hampshire St) on Norfolk St. But, drop-off compost is currently CLOSED at Danehy Park and Hoyt Field.
Mattress, TV, and other Large Item collection is ON SCHEDULE. Visit CambridgeMA.gov/Recycle to schedule a collection.
The Recycling Center will be open on Saturdays ONLY through the end of the summer. Due to COVID-19, there are extra safety protocols being implemented. Please review the changes here.
 

Engineering & Construction

On May 25, construction in the City was allowed to resume in phases, beginning with site safety prep work to ensure compliance with new guidelines of the COVID-19 Control Plan. Additional phases will include resuming already permitted street and sidewalk work, City building projects, existing construction projects and finally, newly permitted work. For complete details, please see the Amended Temporary Emergency Construction Order.
    
Phase 1, beginning May 25, will add site safety prep work for projects previously permitted by Inspectional Services (ISD) and Public Works (DPW). Forthcoming amendments to the City’s Temporary Emergency Construction Order issued on March 18 will modify the definition of essential construction to include work associated with COVID-19 restaurant modification needed to allow them to safely reopen;
Phase 2, beginning on June 1, will add horizontal construction, city building projects, 100% affordable housing developments, larger buildings (over 25,000 square feet) previously permitted by ISD or DPW;
Phase 3, beginning on June 15, will add all remaining existing construction previously permitted by ISD and DPW; and
Phase 4a, beginning on June 22, will add new permits for horizontal construction, roof, solar, siding, asbestos and trade permits.
Phase 4b, beginning on June 29, will add new permits.Permits can be submitted and pre-reviews will occur at any time, but permits will not be formally accepted or issued until this date.



Forestry

A priority pruning and hazardous tree removal crew has been working on a two day a week basis. A three days a week rotation will start June 1.
The planting contractor has 3 trucks watering trees planted within the last 2 years. They are watering from 310 a.m., 5 days a week.
Forestry crews will begin placing gator bags around trees that the department is responsible for watering.
A reduced spring planting is scheduled to start June 1, with the goal to plant 200 trees (weather dependent).
Our pruning contractor will start maintenance pruning on June 1.
Emerald Ash Borer treatments are scheduled to start by the end of June or early July.
We are reviewing and issuing tree removal permit applications.

Streets, Sidewalks and Sewer

One Crew On-Site: a single 2-person crew, on a rotation, will remain available to perform routine inspection of sewer, respond to backup issues and to address any safety-related street and sidewalk issues. Additional crews will be available on an on-call basis. The Street Division is on-call to address safety-related street and sidewalk issues. 

Cemetery

Cemetery is OPEN with some restrictions: Crews are working with funeral directors and visitors to maintain social distancing recommendations. Cemetery gates will remain open for visitors, but visitors should keep a distance of at least 6 feet between themselves and other people. Gates will closed during graveside ceremonies in order to encourage social distancing.

Finance

Real Estate and Property Tax Update of 4-20-20: The City is extending the due date for Second Half Real Estate and Property Tax bills until June 1, 2020.  Interest and other penalties on late payments made on property tax bills will be waived if payments are made by June 29, 2020. Real Estate and Property Tax bills are currently available online at cambridgema.gov/paybill. Because property tax revenue is the largest source of City revenue, which allows the continuance of essential City services, property owners who are able to pay on-time are encouraged to do so as to make it possible for the City to accept late payments for those who need relief.
Extension of Due Date for Exemption and Deferral Applications 4-6-20: The City is extending the due date under G.L. c. 59, § 59 for applications for exemptions from April 1, 2020 to a date not later than June 1, 2020. This extension will automatically apply to deferrals under G.L. c. 59, § 5[18A] and [41A], residential exemptions under G.L. c. 59, § 5C and small commercial exemptions under G.L. c. 59, § 5I.
Excise Tax and Water/Sewer Payments Update 4-6-20: Interest and other penalties on late payments made on Excise Tax and water/sewer bills with due dates after March 10, 2020 will be waived if payments are made before June 29, 2020.
The City of Cambridge will temporarily absorb all credit card and ACH fees relating to online payments of Real Estate, Personal Property, Water Bills, etc., paid through our Invoice Cloud payment portal. This change is effective immediately and will remain until further notice.
Second Half Property Tax bills were mailed in April. Property Tax bills can be accessed or paid online by going to cambridgema.gov/paybill. The City of Cambridge is temporarily absorbing all credit card and ACH fees relating to online payments of Real Estate, Personal Property, Water Bills, etc., paid through our Invoice Cloud payment portal. 
A Payment Mailbox is available in the rear of City Hall, 795 Mass. Ave. for taxpayers who wish to make payments (checks and money orders preferred) directly to the City. Taxpayers can also make online or mail payments. As a reminder, the City of Cambridge is temporarily absorbing all credit card and ACH fees relating to online payments of Real Estate, Personal Property, Water Bills, etc., paid through our Invoice Cloud payment portal. Individuals using the “Payment Mailbox” option should ensure that their payments are in a sealed envelope, contain a payment stub, and include the bill number, parcel ID, or other identifying information, including a phone number on their check. Individuals can use the “Payment Mailbox” to make Real Estate, Water/Sewer, Excise, Parking Ticket, or other payments.




Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/Testing


Testing
There are several ways that Cambridge residents can get tested for COVID-19. The sites listed below are offering viral tests, which tell you if you have a current infection. Viral testing is covered by insurance and, in some instances, is being offered for free, depending on the site.
 

Mobile Testing
During the month of July, the Cambridge Public Health Department will  offer free mobile testing in North Cambridge, The Port, East Cambridge and Harvard Square one day each week during designated hours. 
All Cambridge residents are welcome. To schedule an appointment, call 617-665-3795 or sign-up online:
https://covid-test.appointlet.com/s/cambridge

North Cambridge - Wednesdays, 11 a.m. - 3 p.m. Jefferson Park clinic at 266-B Rindge Avenue
Harvard Square - Wednesdays, 4 p.m. - 6 p.m First Church Cambridge at 11 Garden Street
East Cambridge - Thursdays, 12 p.m. - 4 p.m. Millers Rivers Apartment at 661 Cambridge Street
The Port - Thursdays, 5 p.m. - 8 p.m. Pisani Center at 131 Washington Street

Additional neighborhoods may be added to the mobile testing program as this situation continues to evolve.
Download Mobile Testing Flyer
 


Test Results
The Cambridge Public Health Department shares results with residents who receive testing at a mobile site or CHA stand-alone testing center. Residents are typically called within five days of the health department receiving the results. To find out the status of your test results, leave a message at 617-665-3848 and you will receive a call back.


Other Ways to Get Tested
If you are not a Cambridge resident or cannot access the Cambridge testing sites, there are several ways you can gain access to testing:
Contact Your Health Care Provider
If you think you may have COVID-19, call your health care provider and tell them about your symptoms. COVID-19 symptoms may include fever, sore throat, loss of sense of smell, cough, difficulty breathing, body aches, or chills.
Your health care provider will help you decide whether testing is appropriate. If your provider thinks you should be tested and cannot do the test on-site, they will make the referral to a testing site near you.
Here is a current list of COVID-19 testing sites in Massachusetts: https://www.mass.gov/doc/ma-covid-19-testing-sites/download
Use the State’s Free Online Telehealth Service
The state is partnering with Doctor on Demand to offer free telehealth visits to Massachusetts residents who want to get a quick assessment of symptoms and/or do not have health insurance. Through this service, you’ll be evaluated online and connected to testing if needed. To access this free service, go to: https://www.mass.gov/how-to/check-your-symptoms-for-covid-19-online
Call the State’s 24-Hour Hotline
If you do not have internet access or do not feel comfortable using websites, you can call 2-1-1, a 24-hour state-supported telephone hotline. Hotline staff can provide guidance on testing. 


Resources

Massachusetts COVID-19 testing page (Mass.gov)
COVID-19 Test Site Locator tool





Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/Streets


Street Changes
The City is working to ensure that our streets are being used in the most efficient way possible as we all work together to stop the spread of COVID-19.
Page sections: Shared Streets | Support for Local Businesses | Share Your Input | Next Steps

Shared Streets 
Pilot Program Details
Shared streets are open for:

walking and biking, while staying at least 6 feet / 2 meters apart,
local residents,
local businesses,
parking,
deliveries,
emergency vehicles,
trash and recycling pick-up,
street cleaning, and
all other previous uses of the street.

By designating some streets as Shared Streets, we’re simply letting people know that if you’re driving, you should go slow (10 mph or less) and remember that more people may be walking or biking in the roadway. We do not anticipate any changes to parking or other curb regulations as a result of implementing shared streets.
The following streets will be designated as shared streets:

Garden Street, Field Street, and Bay State Road corridor from Concord Avenue to New Street, which provide connections to Cambridge Common, Harvard Square, Harvard Yard, Danehy Park, Fresh Pond, Alewife, Trader Joe’s, Whole Foods
Harvard Street from Quincy Street to Portland Street, which provides connections to Kendall Square, Harvard Square, Harvard Yard, Sennott Park, nearby City buildings, Washington Elms/Newtowne Court, 119 Windsor Street, Whole Foods
Magazine Street from Green Street to Memorial Drive, which provides connections to Central Square, Magazine Beach, BU Bridge, Morse School fields, Trader Joe’s
    

All of these streets were previously identified in the Cambridge Bicycle Plan as streets that should be prioritized as low-volume/low-speed routes. We expect to begin implementing Shared Streets in mid-June.
View the COVID-19 Street Changes Map
On a Shared Street, the roadway space is shared by people walking, biking, and driving at low speeds. Allowing people to share the street creates additional space for physical distancing. Shared Street designations will be in effect 24 hours/day, 7 days/week for an indefinite period. The shared operation of these streets is also intended to be easily understood by all users, with little or no additional police presence required.

People are allowed to walk and bike in both directions to use the road, and people driving must to yield to them. Local Access Only, Shared Street, and 10 mph advisory speed limit signs will be posted at key cross streets to discourage through traffic, but the streets will remain open for residents of the street, emergency vehicles, and deliveries. Signs will also help drivers find alternative routes for through trips.
Nearby communities including Arlington and Somerville, as well as in other municipalities around the country, have implemented Shared Streets programs. You can view the handout that was shared at the May 28, 2020 Special City Council Meeting.


Shared Streets Pilot Program Updates

Thursday, June 25, 2020 - Community Webinar
On Thursday, June 18, 2020, we announced that a community webinar would be held on Thursday, June 25, 2020. Community members were invited to submit questions in advance of the webinar. During the webinar, staff from the Traffic, Parking, and Transportation Department gave a short presentation about the program, then answered the questions that were sent in advance before answering questions that were submitted via the webinar. You may watch or listen to a recording of the June 25 webinar.
Wednesday, June 24, 2020 - Implementation Update
The final materials needed for the implementation of the initial round of Shared Streets were delivered to the Traffic, Parking, and Transportation Department. We are working to install the 10 mph signs as quickly as possible. We will then work to attach the “Shared Street” and “Local Access Only” signs to the A-frames and begin placing them on the Shared Streets starting Friday, June 26.
Based on conversations with the MBTA, the Route 64 bus will be moved from Magazine St to River St. Starting Friday, June 26, Route 64 passengers traveling towards Central Square will need to use one of the bus stops on River St. An additional bus stop will be installed on River St at Green St.
Monday, June 22, 2020 - COVID-19 Street Changes Map Launched
On Monday, June 22, 2020 we launched an interactive map showing the changes that are being made to the streets in response to COVID-19. The map also allows members of the community to suggest locations for Shared Streets.

View the COVID-19 Street Changes Map
Wednesday, June 17, 2020 - Shared Streets Postcard
On July 17, 2020, postcards about the Shared Streets program began arriving at households that are directly impacted by the Shared Streets pilot program.
Tuesday, June 16, 2020 - Shared Streets Coming Soon Signs Posted
On Tuesday, June 16, 2020, we posted signs on the three streets selected for the pilot program to let people know that they would soon be Shared Streets.
Monday, June 1, 2020 - COVID-19 Street Changes Page Launched
On Monday, June 1, 2020 we launched this web page which provides more information about all of the changes that are being made in response to COVID-19 to ensure that we're using our streets as efficiently as possible.
Thursday, May 28, 2020 - Special City Council Meeting
On Thursday, May 28, 2020, the Cambridge City Council held a special meeting. During that meeting, the Traffic, Parking, and Transportation Director gave an update about plans for street changes in response to COVID-19. Based on the feedback received from the Council during this meeting, we began the work to implement these changes, including the Shared Streets pilot program. During the meeting, a handout was shared with the Councillors and made available to the the public. You can view the Special City Council Meeting handout.



Support for Local Businesses
Pick it Up Cambridge / 15-Minute Pick-Up Zones
Businesses in Cambridge may request that the parking in front of their business be converted to a 15-minute pick-up zone. If you are interested in this program, please let us know via the Pick-Up Zone Request Form. The rendering below shows an example of the signs that are posted in the zones. Meter payments are not required in these areas.
Request a Pick-Up Zone



Outdoor Dining Areas
The City of Cambridge has worked closely with Cambridge Local First, the Central Square Business Improvement District, East Cambridge/Inman Square Business Association, Harvard Square Business Association (HSBA), and restaurants across the city to identify opportunities for the City to support restaurants by creating additional space for outdoor dining.
At locations that have been permitted for outdoor dining, restaurants will be responsible for providing tables and chairs according to social distancing guidelines and roping off their outdoor dining areas each day. Due to liquor license requirements and to ensure that the tables are cleaned between each use, these new outdoor dining areas will be designated for use by the adjacent restaurants. Where possible, the outdoor dining areas may be used for loading or parking when they are not being used for dining.
While most of these new outdoor dining locations will be implemented on sidewalks or in a few parking spaces, more significant changes are being made in Central, Harvard, and Inman Squares. Impacted streets include Bow St from Plympton St to DeWolfe St; Brattle St from Church St to Eliot St; Cambridge St from Springfield to Prospect St; Massachusetts Ave from Norfolk St to Brookline St; and Palmer Stfrom Church St to Brattle St. Details about the changes on each street may be found on the Cambridge COVID-19 Street Changes Map.
Apply for an Outdoor Dining Area


Share Your Input
There are multiple ways that you can share your input with us.
You may use the Cambridge COVID-19 Street Changes Map to identify locations that would or would not be good as a Shared Street. You may also use this map to comment on other people’s comments. If you’d like to share your general thoughts about how we’re changing the streets, please add your comments to our COVID-19 Street Changes Feedback Form. We will take all feedback into consideration. If you have a question that you’d like us to answer, you may email tpt@cambridgema.gov or call 617-349-4700.
View Map of Changes or Suggest a Location for a Shared Street
Submit General Feedback
Email a Question


Next Steps
We’re starting with the three corridors of shared streets. After we receive additional community feedback, we’ll evaluate additional opportunities to implement:

additional Shared Street locations to create a network across the city, which connects people to key destinations (while also considering existing paths, separated bicycle lanes, and other high-comfort walking and biking facilities);
expanded sidewalk space at key locations and nodes in high-traffic areas to promote physical distancing;
space to support local businesses, including sidewalk/street dining, additional pick-up areas for restaurants and retail, space for customers to practice physical distancing while waiting, and other supportive uses to be identified by business associations and local businesses; and
facilities to help the buses operate more frequently and more reliably, with the goal of reducing crowding on the buses and at bus stops





Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/facecoverings


Face Coverings
Updates

(6/27/20) The City has amended the Emergency Order requiring face coverings. During the summer months (i.e., from June 23,2020 until midnight on September 22, 2020) masks or cloth face coverings may be temporarily removed when outdoors when a physical distance of at least six (6) feet from others can be maintained at all times. Additionally, clarifying language has been added to allow for the removal of masks for dining at food establishments in the city, including outdoor dining.
(5/11/20) The City of Cambridge are distributing free face masks at the Cambridge Police Department, which is located at 125 6th Street, 7 days a week between the hours of 11 a.m.- 1 p.m. or until daily supplies are depleted. Officers in every marked Cambridge Police cruiser will have a supply of masks to distribute if they encounter residents without them during calls for service. Additionally, Homeless Outreach Officers will have an available supply and will proactively seek out and provide masks to residents who may not have access to a mask. If residents or organizations are looking to buy or make their own masks and face coverings, please see below for more information.
(5/1/20) The Baker-Polito Administration has ordered all residents over the age of two to use a face covering or mask in public places where maintaining proper social distancing measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 are not possible. Learn more.

 
Cambridge Face Covering Order
The City of Cambridge issued an emergency order requiring that face coverings be worn in all public places, businesses and common areas of residential buildings. The original order took effect at 12:01 a.m. on Wednesday, April 29, and applies to everyone over the age of five years old, with exceptions in alignment with guidelines provided by the Centers for Disease Control or Massachusetts Department of Public Health. Violations may be punishable by a $300 fine. 
“While we are grateful to those in Cambridge who have been heeding our previous mask advisory and taking this issue seriously, we are concerned about the number of residents who continue to shop, walk, run and bike throughout the city without proper face coverings,” said Mayor Siddiqui and City Manager DePasquale in a joint statement. “We must all do our part in flattening the curve and make sure we are preventing the further spread of COVID-19. This mandate emphasizes the importance of wearing a face covering, not as an option, but as a requirement in our effort to combat this pandemic together.”
The order applies to everyone over five years old “without limitation, when on, in or about” public places, defined as:

Sidewalks
Streets
Parks
Plazas
Bus stops
Non-residential parking lots and garages
Any other outdoor area or non-residential parking facility which is open and accessible to the general public.

During the summer months,  masks or cloth face coverings may be temporarily removed when outdoors when a physical distance of at least six (6) feet from others can be maintained at all times
The mask requirement also applies to anyone working in or visiting an essential business, as well as shoppers and consumers. Masks must remain on throughout shifts or visits to those businesses. The businesses covered under the order, include:

Grocery stores or supermarkets
Pharmacies
Laundromats
Dry cleaners
Hardware stores
Restaurants, cafes or similar establishments where prepared foods, meals or beverages may be purchased (the removal of masks for indoor and outdoor dining at food establishments in the city is allowed)
Local government buildings
Commercial office buildings
All essential businesses defined in Governor Baker’s March 23, 2020 Executive Order

In residential buildings of two or more units when people cannot maintain a 6 foot distance, masks will be required prior to entering any common area, including:

Lobbies
Hallways
Elevators
Stairwells
Laundry rooms
Garages or parking lots
Walkways
Yards and other outdoor common areas
Mailrooms and other indoor common areas

 
The City’s Temporary Emergency Order Requiring the Wearing of Masks or Face Coverings in all Public Places, Businesses, and in Common Areas of Residential Buildings was amended on May 25, 2020 and on June 23, 2020.
 

Tips and FAQs

Is the City distributing masks?
The City of Cambridge announced a new initiative in which thousands of face masks will be distributed by members of the Cambridge Police Department to residents throughout the community beginning Thursday, April 30. The new initiative is in part made possible by a large donation of masks from the MA Chinese Community and FoGuang Buddhist Temple to the Office of Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui.
Masks will be made available to residents on a first-come, first-served basis while supplies last and quantities will be limited to the number of residents in a household. Masks will be made available at the following locations and through various city resources:
Meal Distribution Sites
Masks are available at the Cambridge Police Department, which is located at 125 6th Street, 7 days a week between the hours of 11 a.m.- 1 p.m. or until daily supplies are depleted. . 

Officers in every marked Cambridge Police cruiser will have a supply of masks to distribute if they encounter residents without them during calls for service. Additionally, Homeless Outreach Officers will have an available supply and will proactively seek out and provide masks to residents who may not have access to a mask. 

Residents who already have masks and/or the resources at home to make cloth masks are encouraged to defer supplies to those residents and families who are most in need.

More information on face mask distribution is available here.
Why should I wear a face mask or covering?
While many Cambridge residents have been taking seriously all advisories to wear face masks, there are residents who continue to shop, walk, and run throughout the city without proper face coverings. There is data that suggests that COVID-19 may be spread by people who are not showing symptoms.
 
Wearing a face covering may help people who are asymptomatic (they never experience symptoms) or presymptomatic (that is, they may have the virus yet don’t show any symptoms) from transmitting COVID-19 to others. Most non-medical face coverings are not intended to protect the wearer from getting sick.
 
It is vitally important to remember that a face covering does not replace frequent handwashing, avoiding touching the face or mask exterior, staying 6 feet from others when outside, and staying away from people who are ill. These are the most important and effective steps you can take to prevent the spread of COVID-19. 


Does this Emergency Order apply to everyone in Cambridge?

This emergency order applies to all people over the age of 5, excluding those who:

Are 5 years old or younger
Have trouble breathing
Are unconscious, incapacitated, or not able to remove the mask without assistance. 



Face masks should be worn in all outdoor public locations when it is not possible to reliably and consistently maintain social distance (6 feet) and when entering any business open to the public. (See question below for more details.)


Do I need to wear my face covering or mask every time I go outside?

Mostly, yes.  Everyone over the age of 5 years old must  wear a mask or cloth face covering that covers both the mouth and nose at all times when in public and where others may be present. Public spaces include:

Sidewalks
Streets
Parks
Plazas
Bus stops
Non-residential parking lots and garages
Any other public outdoor area 
Nonresidential parking facility which is open and accessible to the general public



It is important that you keep your face covering on while outside if there is any reasonable chance of encountering another person. If you need to take off your face mask, make sure to keep it close by so that you can put it back on quickly and properly should you come into close contact with another person.
 
To take off your covering, grab the strings or loops, being very careful not to touch the front of the covering nor your eyes, nose or mouth.


Do I have to wear my mask inside as well as outside?
Yes, there are a number of indoor spaces where everyone who is able must wear a face mask or cloth covering.
 
In all places of business open to the public.
 
Everyone over the age of 5 must wear a face mask or covering when entering any business open to the public, including:

Grocery stores and supermarkets
Pharmacies
Laundromats
Dry cleaners 
Hardware stores 
Restaurants/ cafes or similar establishments where prepared foods/ meals or beverages may be purchased
Local government buildings 
Commercial office buildings 

 
You should wear your mask the entire time that you are inside these places of business just as you should while walking down the sidewalk.  All places of business are required to post signage at the entrances to their buildings informing the public that masks or cloth face coverings must be worn at all times inside (and outside nearby).
It is important that you not take off your face covering while inside the building. If you need to take off your face mask, make sure to keep it close by so that you can put it back on quickly and properly should you come into close contact with another person.
Employees, contractors, or visitors to a COVID-19 essential business
All employees, contractors, or visitors to COVID-19 essential businesses must wear a mask or a cloth face covering before entering any COVID-19 essential business and for the entire time that they are on the premises.  
In addition to wearing masks or face coverings, all essential businesses should continue to keep in place additional measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19 including: 

Providing disposable gloves and hand sanitizer to all employees for use on items that are being sold, sent, or transported off-site.
Requiring employees to wash hands, even where gloves are worn, with soapy water at regular intervals (every thirty minutes for publicly accessible businesses) and providing handwashing stations.
Requiring employees to maintain a distance of 6 feet at all times practicable.
Screening employees for symptoms of COVID-19 prior to allowing them on work sites.
Ordering sick employees to stay at home.

Do I need to wear a mask inside if I live in an apartment building (or any location with more than one apartment)?
Everyone over the age of 5 years old who lives in an apartment building or location with more than one apartment should maintain proper physical distancing (also referred to as “social distancing”) in all common spaces by maintaining at least 6 feet between themselves and others. If you are not able to be at least 6 feet from others, then you must wear a mask in these common spaces, which include:

Lobby
Hallways
Elevators
Stairwells
Laundry rooms
Garage or parking lots
Walkways 
Yards
Other common outdoor and indoor areas shared by more than one apartment/townhouse when 6 feet of separation cannot reliably and consistently be maintained. 

 
All residential buildings are required to post signage in or near all common spaces regarding physical distancing and mask wearing.


What if I am unable to wear a mask due to a preexisting health condition or physical or mental disability?

If you are unable to wear a mask due to an underlying health condition, or a physical or mental disability (that prevents you from breathing properly or prohibits you from putting on and taking off your mask properly), please do NOT wear a mask. 
 
This includes people who:

Are 5 years old or younger
Have trouble breathing
Are unconscious, incapacitated, or not able to remove the mask without assistance. 



If you cannot wear a mask and need or want to go outside or to a place of business, please take important physical distancing precautions:

Maintain a safe separation of at least 6 feet from others while outside, as well as inside any office or other building.
Avoid crowds of any size.
Try to visit grocery stores and pharmacies when they are less crowded.

How do I properly wear a cloth face covering or mask?
All face coverings should:

Fit snugly, but comfortably against the side of the face.
Be secured with ties or ear loops.
Include multiple layers of fabric.
Allow for breathing without restriction (cloth face coverings should not be placed on young children under age 5, persons who have trouble breathing, or anyone who is unconscious, incapacitated or otherwise unable to remove the mask without assistance).
Be able to be laundered and machine dried without damage or change to shape. 
Be frequently washed using a washing machine with detergent and hot water and dried on a hot cycle. They can also be hand washed with soap and warm water, and left to dry.

 
After wearing your face mask, you should remove it carefully, avoiding touching your nose, eyes, or mouth until the face covering has been properly disposed of or placed carefully away to be washed and you should immediately wash your hands after removal. 


Should I wear a face mask or covering while I exercise?
Yes! Everyone is required to wear a mask, even to exercise.
 
If you are exercising and need to remove your face covering to breathe adequately, make sure no one is near you before removing it. Be sure to keep the face covering readily available so you can put it back on quickly and properly if someone comes within 6 feet of you.
 
It’s also important for you to stay at least 6 feet away from others while you are exercising outside. Only engage in types of exercise that allow you to keep a 6 foot physical distance from others and that don’t require shared equipment or close contact with others.


What precautions do I need to take when removing my face mask or covering?

Wash your hands for 20 seconds with soap and water every time you put on and take off the face covering. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. 
Do not touch your eyes, nose, or mouth when you remove the face covering. 
Do not put a used face covering in places where others can touch them or where germs trapped in your face covering can touch other surfaces, such as counter tops or a kitchen table. 
Do not throw your face covering loose in a bag or backpack. Keep a paper or plastic bag with you to store your face covering if you will be taking it off when outside the house.

How often should I wash my face mask or covering? 
It is recommended that you wash your face covering once a day by hand or machine using detergent. The face covering should be fully dry before using it again.  
 
Disposable “procedure” masks cannot be washed, but may be used in a 5-7 day rotation to allow viral particles to become non-viable on the outer surface of the mask. 


My organization wants to help make masks - how do we do that?
Face Masks for Cambridge is an effort to establish one central place for organizations and people in Cambridge to request handmade cloth face masks that are being sewn by local volunteers. This is a collaboration between Many Helping Hands 365, Mask Up, and the Cambridge Volunteer Clearinghouse with coordination support from the Cambridge Public Health Department. See the questions below for how you or your organization can give or get mask(s).Other sewing collaboratives are invited to join. Please email Deanna at the Cambridge Public Health Department at dewu@challiance.org for more information.
I sew masks - where can I donate them?
Face Masks for Cambridge is an effort to establish one central place for organizations and people in Cambridge to request handmade cloth face masks that are being sewn by local volunteers. This is a collaboration between Many Helping Hands 365, Mask Up, and the Cambridge Volunteer Clearinghouse with coordination support from the Cambridge Public Health Department. If you or anyone you know would like to sew masks and donate them to Cambridge nonprofits, please contact Emily Dexter at masks@cambridgevolunteers.org. Emily is coordinating this effort.
My organization needs masks - how can we get them?
If your organization is in need of masks, please submit your request through this Google Form. Groups involved in this effort can claim your request and someone will be in touch with you directly. 
I need a face covering - where can I get one? Is it possible for me to make my own face covering?
You can make your face covering easily at home by using a scarf, bandana or other cotton cloth. There are a number of easy “do it yourself” videos and instructions to help you make your own cloth face covering at home, including:

The CDC website has a few patterns, including one that involves a coffee filter and another that requires no sewing — just scissors and the willingness to sacrifice a T-shirt! Surgeon General Jerome Adams released a video of himself making a mask out of cloth and rubber bands.
Cambridge Health Alliance also offers a “how to” here.
A simple no-sew mask that has a bridge for your nose, which can help keep your glasses from fogging up.
Take the Choose Your Mask quiz. Answer a few questions to find an easy, no-sew mask you can make and feel comfortable wearing.



 
Homemade cloth masks can be found online. Look for ones made of cotton. If you order online, places like Etsy, which you can filter by location, allow you to support someone local and get a delivery more quickly. In addition, Esmeralda, a jewelry and accessory store in Harvard Square, sells masks for toddlers, kids, and adults via its online store www.EsmeraldaStore.com. They are delivering orders placed on their website to Cambridge customers within 24 hours. Cambridge Volunteer Clearinghouse has launched a BOGO (Buy One Give One) mask-raiser for individuals, starting at $10 per two masks. You can learn more here. 
Residents who already have masks and/or the resources at home to make cloth masks are encouraged to defer supplies to those residents and families who are most in need.


What is the evidence regarding face coverings as an effective way to stop the spread of COVID-19?  
The most effective way to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 is through proper physical distancing by maintaining at least 6 feet between you and everyone else. Washing your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds is also a necessary and highly effective way to limit or prevent the spread of the virus.
 
In very densely populated cities like Cambridge, it can be extremely difficult to regularly physically distance yourself from others. Per the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, we now know that a significant portion of individuals with coronavirus don’t ever experience symptoms (they are asymptomatic) or have not yet developed symptoms (they are pre-symptomatic) and can transmit the virus to others..  This means that the virus can spread between people interacting in close proximity—for example, talking, singing , yelling, coughing, or sneezing—even if those people are not exhibiting symptoms. 
 
Additionally, with observations that some people in Cambridge are not practicing physical distancing nor wearing masks when in close proximity to others, the City determined that wearing a face mask is a necessary step to prevent further spread of COVID-19 in Cambridge and to flatten the curve.
 
The full Temporary Emergency Order may be found here.





 
Make Your Own Face Coverings
As a reminder, face covering is not a substitute for physical distancing and regular hand washing, which remain among the most effective ways to slow the spread of COVID-19. The single most effective way to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 is to stay home.
A face covering can be: 

A mask
A scarf
A bandana 
Made from a t-shirt or other cloth

 
Quick Cut T-Shirt Face Covering (no sew method)

 
Bandana Face Covering (no sew method)

More Information

Amended City of Cambridge Emergency Order Requiring Use of Face Coverings (PDF)
Governor Baker's Order Requiring Face Coverings in Public Places Where Social Distancing is Not Possible (PDF)
Guidance for Residents on Wearing Face Coverings During COVID-19 (PDF)
Face Coverings Flyer for Businesses/Public Places (PDF)
    
Flyers also available in multiple languages


Use of Cloth Face Coverings to Help Slow the Spread of COVID-19 (PDF)
Cloth Face Coverings: Questions and Answers from the CDC

 


Videos



How to Make Your Own Face Covering




ASL Use of Cloth Face Coverings








Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/Business


Businesses

Updates & Resources
Reopening
Access information on City and state plans and guidance to safely reopen the economy, get people back to work, and ease social restrictions while minimizing the health impacts of COVID-19.
Learn More
What's Open?
Interested in learning which Cambridge businesses and nonprofits are open or closed during the COVID-19 pandemic? We've created lists with help from local business associations and the Cambridge Nonprofit Coalition that are being updated frequently showing businesses that are open/closed, offering takeout/delivery/online sales, and which businesses are selling groceries. If you or a business you know is open in Cambridge, please contact Pardis Saffari at psaffari@cambridgema.gov. 
View Business ListView Nonprofit List
 
Grants & Loans
Applications for the Small Business Grants Provided by the City of Cambridge’s Mayor’s Disaster Relief Fund & Small Business Zero Interest Loans Provided by the Cambridge Redevelopment Authority are now open. Guidelines are available here.
Apply Now 
Interested in other funding opportunities for small businesses? Click here to learn more.
 




News

Keep in Touch with the Latest City Information








Take the Small Business Reopening Survey

The City is asking local business owners to provide feedback on their Phase 2 reopening experience. 










City of Cambridge Announces Street Changes to Increase Outdoor Dining Options

This work expands on the outdoor dining spaces that previously existed in Cambridge before COVID-19 and is made possible by increased flexibility in the State’s rules relative to permitting outdoor dining areas. 










Small Business COVID-19 Webinars

The SBA, SCORE, and other local business organizations are offering a variety of small business education sessions around COVID-19 topics. Learn about these upcoming opportunities and more. Unless otherwise noted, these programs are not presented by the City of Cambridge. 







Applications for Temporary Extension of Licensed Premises to Outdoor Area Due to COVID-19 in Cambridge Are Now Available

This application is for those requesting a temporary extension of your licensed premises to include an outdoor area or expand an existing outdoor area (public, private or both) to serve food or food and alcohol pursuant to the provisions of your current license and the Commonwealth’s Phased Reopening Plan due to the COVID-19 Pandemic.










City of Cambridge Encourages Residents to "Pick It Up, Cambridge"

The City of Cambridge, in partnership with the local business community, is launching “Pick It Up, Cambridge,” a social media and print campaign to encourage patrons to call direct and pick up their orders to help business owners retain the full value of their product and support local eateries. 





View All



Cambridge Orders, Guidance & Guidelines 

Mandatory Emergency Orders & Guidance from the City of Cambridge

Mandatory Emergency Orders from the City of Cambridge

Guidelines for Food Markets & Restaurants

Examples of successful implementation


Mandatory Guidelines for Restaurant Sale of Groceries During COVID-19 Pandemic – Amended May 6, 2020
        
Online Application Available





Local guidance from the Cambridge Public Health Department
Public Health Guidance

Guidance for Large Residential & Multi-unit Properties
Hygiene Guidance for Businesses & Public Offices
Hygiene, Social Distancing, & Food Waste Guidance for Restaurants & Food Markets




Commonwealth of Massachusetts Guidance & Guidelines

Massachusetts Essential Services Order & Essential Businesses List
COVID-19 Essential Services Order by Governor Baker of 3-31-20
Governor Baker extended his closure of all non-essential businesses and the Department of Public Health’s Stay At Home advisory to May 4. This step was taken to align with federal social distancing guidelines and current MA public school closures. This extension included minor revisions to the list of essential businesses to resolve some supply chains for essential operations. The list of essential businesses can be found here. Businesses not on this list are encouraged to continue operations remotely as feasible.
Reopening: Purchasing Hygienic or Protective Supplies for the Workplace
These resources are provided to help inform employers and employees about supplies needed to return to workplaces, and connect businesses with manufacturers and distributors. In order to operate in Reopening Phase 1 and all future phases, certain supplies are required. (Mass.gov)



US Small Business Administration (SBA) Guidance

COVID-19 Relief Options & Frequently Asked Questions
Don't know where to get started?
Start with the Paycheck Protection Program and to see forms, etc; then next to Economic Injury Disaster Loans and advance; then next to Express Bridge Loans and then next to Debt Relief for existing and future SBA 7a, 504 and microloan. 
The following questions might help point you in the right direction:
Do you need capital to cover the cost of retaining employees?

Then the Paycheck Protection Program might be right for you.

Need a quick infusion of a smaller amount of cash to cover you right now?

You might want to look into an Emergency Economic Injury Grant.
If you have an existing relationship with an SBA Express lender, the Express Bridge Loan might be a good fit to get up to $25K quickly.  Look for Express Lenders

Fears about keeping up with payments on your current or potential SBA loan? 

The Small Business Debt Relief Program could help. 

 

Frequently Asked Questions:
If I am applying or already received an Economic Injury Disaster Loan, is my small business eligible to participate in the Paycheck Protection Program? 

Borrowers can apply for BOTH Economic Injury Disaster Loan and the Paycheck Protection Program loan.
However, the Paycheck Protection Program loan funds and the Economic Injury Disaster Loan funds cannot be used for the same purpose.
The Paycheck Protection Program loan must be used for payroll (minimum of 75% of the funds received) for it to be eligible for a forgivable loan and the remaining 25% is used for different purposes(mortgage interest, rent, utilities, other services).
Borrowers who accept both loan funds should document the uses of the funds appropriately. If your Economic Injury Disaster Loan was used for payroll costs, your Paycheck Protection Program loan must be used to refinance your Economic Injury Disaster Loan.
Any advance up to $10,000 on the Economic Injury Disaster Loan will be deducted from the loan forgiveness amount of the Paycheck Protection Program loan. 
For example, a borrower may obtain a loan from the Paycheck Protection Program and use those funds to pay for 8 weeks of payroll or employee retention. They may wish to then dedicate their entire EIDL funds towards working capital, notes payable and accounts payable that do not duplicate the funds provided through the Paycheck Protection Program. If the EIDL loan was used for payroll expenses, the borrower must refinance the EIDL loan with the PPP loan which carries a lower interest rate as well as a shorter maturity period. If you are applying for both, you can accept PPP first – then decide whether or not to close on your EIDL approved loan.  
The application period for PPP loans runs through June 30, 2020, but the EIDL application period runs through December 2020. 
EIDL Loan advances will start to be distributed this week.  $1000 per employee up to $10,000 max - IF YOU DID NOT APPLY THROUGH THE STREAMLINED PROCESS WHICH STARTED LAST WEEK, SBA request that you visit https://covid19relief.sba.gov/#/ and reapply with the secure streamlined process. You will not lose your place in queue with your original EIDL loan application.
EIDL loans will not require a personal guarantee for loans under $200,000EIDL loans will not require real estate collateral for loans under $500,000. SBA will be looking be best available lien priority on all business assets or other business assets.

 
More Information:





More on Paycheck Protection Program
PPP Bank Locator
Please direct all inquiries and questions to our District Office email at: MassachusettsDO@sba.gov








Cambridge's Business Associations
The following is a list of local businesses associations. Visit them online to learn more about what they're during to provide information for and about local businesses: 

Cambridge Chamber of Commerce
Cambridge Local First
Central Square Business Association
East Cambridge Business Association
Harvard Square Business Association
Kendall Square Business Association



General Resources for Local Businesses



Preparedness Resources
 Small business owners invest a tremendous amount of time, money and resources to make their ventures successful. Take time now, before a disaster, to plan to protect your investment.
View Resources


Guidance for Businesses
The CDC has interim guidance based for businesses and employers.
View Resources


Pick It Up Cambridge
The City of Cambridge, in partnership with the local business community, is launching “Pick It Up Cambridge,” a social media and print campaign to encourage patrons to call direct and pick up their orders to help business owners retain the full value of their product and support local eateries.
Access Toolkit






Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//cpl/aboutus/covid19updates



	Get COVID-19 Updates



Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/Seniors


Seniors
Communication Resources for Cambridge Seniors

The City of Cambridge Senior Centers and the Council on Aging remain closed until further notice. If you have questions about available senior resources and services, or if you have concerns about a senior, please call the Council on Aging’s main line at 617-349-6220.
Twice a week, a broadcast message is sent by phone to seniors on the Council on Aging’s phone list. These messages include community updates related to COVID-19, general advisories, and other resources. To be added to the broadcast list, call the Council on Aging’s main line at 617-349-6220.
A Phone Assurance Program was recently launched to contact seniors who may be isolated or unable to receive information digitally. If you know a senior who could benefit from a phone check-in by Council on Aging staff, please call the main line at 617-349-6220.

 
Programming Resources for Cambridge Seniors
Virtual Programming
The Cambridge Council on Aging (COA) will continue offering virtual health and wellness classes during the Safer at Home Advisory. Classes include Strength Training, Watercolor Painting, Spanish, Meditation, Zumba, and more. Participants must be 60 years of age or older to enroll in programming.


View the COA Virtual Programming Schedule and Class Descriptions (PDF)
 
Online classes are offered through Zoom, and participants will receive a Zoom email invitation directly from the instructor prior to the start of each class. Note: some class sizes are limited. Enrollment priority will be given to Cambridge residents. 


To sign up for a class, call the COA at 617-349-6220. Questions about caregiver support resources, the Memory Café, and other senior services should also be directed to this phone number.
 
 
Health Information for Seniors
Senior residents, particularly individuals with weakened respiratory and immune systems, may be at higher risk of serious illness upon contracting COVID-19. As a unified community, we can keep our most vulnerable residents safe and healthy, both physically and mentally, by adopting specific precautionary measures.
These measures include practicing thorough personal hygiene and safe social distancing. This also entails restricting visits to senior living and care facilities.
We know that this is weighing on loved ones who wish to visit family members. However, social distancing does not mean that we should stop communicating and caring for one another.
Connecting with loved ones over the phone or electronically is a great way to communicate with one another, provide emotional support and assess how you can help your neighbors.
If you are healthy and able, we also encourage you to ask vulnerable community members how you can provide assistance by offering to safely buy groceries or pick up prescriptions.
If you are a Senior, we urge you to take simple steps to reduce potential exposure to COVID-19, as outlined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. These measures include:

Staying home as much as you are able
Maintaining at least six feet between yourself and others when in public
Avoiding close contact with people who are sick
Avoiding large crowds and unnecessary travel
And practicing good personal hygiene by washing your hands frequently for at least 20 seconds, avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands, and sanitizing frequently touched surfaces in your home.

If you or a loved one are exhibiting symptoms, which include a fever of 100.4˚F or higher, cough or shortness of breath, it is critical that you contact your primary healthcare provider for guidance. You can also call the Massachusetts helpline at 2-1-1.
While following public health guidance can be difficult, we must take action to protect the health and safety of our community. For more tips, updates and information, please reference the City of Cambridge’s COVID-19 information page https://www.cambridgema.gov/covid19.
 
Food Assistance
If you are concerned about a senior’s access to food, please call the Council on Aging’s main line at 617-349-6220.
 
Special Grocery Store Hours
The Mayor, the City Council and the City Manager want to ensure our senior citizens have as much information as possible as we navigate the COVID-19 crisis.
It is incredibly important that residents over the age of 60, especially those with underlying health conditions, practice thorough personal hygiene and safe social distancing.
We also understand you will need to leave the house to obtain groceries and other items.
As of March 23, grocery stores in Massachusetts are now required to provide alternative hours for people over 60 in order to limit their potential exposure to COVID 19. This information must be posted and enforced. Many groceries stores also offer online ordering and/or curbside pickup for customers. Please visit their websites to learn more about what they offer.
Here is the most recent information we have on what local grocery store chains are doing to create specific shopping windows for people over 60:

Broadway Marketplace, 468 Broadway, is offering senior shopping hours 9 a.m.-10 a.m. Monday-Saturday. They are also offering curbside pickup of grocery items.

For curbside pickup: Seniors need to e-mail their order to george@broadwaymarketplace.com. Please include contact information. They will call for a payment method and schedule pick up. When at the curb, call 617-547-2335 and they’ll load your order into your vehicle.


Brothers Market, 1 Broadway, is dedicating 7:00-8:00 a.m. every day as a shopping hour for senior citizens and people with disabilities.
Market Basket, 400 Somerville Ave., Somerville will open exclusively for people over 60 every day from 6:00 a.m. – 7:00 a.m.
Pemberton Farms, 2225 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge will offer daily hours from 6:00 a.m. - 7:00 a.m. for customers ages 60 and over. They can also pull and deliver grocery for nearby customers. If interested, please email Denna at denna@pembertonfarms.com. Delivery fee is determined based on location. 
Stop & Shop, which has locations on McGrath Highway and Alewife Brook Parkway, will open exclusively for people over 60 and anyone with a weakened immune system each day from 6:00 a.m. – 7:30 a.m.
Star Market, which has locations in Porter Square, on Beacon Street, on Mt. Auburn St., and on McGrath Highway, will open on Tuesdays & Thursdays from 7:00 a.m. - 9:00 a.m. for senior citizens and other at-risk populations, such as pregnant women or those with compromised immune systems.

 Learn about curbside pickup with online ordering


Trader Joe's, which has locations at 211 Alewife Brook Parkway and 748 Memorial Drive, will open every day from 8:00 – 9:00 a.m. to anyone 60 or over and customers who with disabilities or who are immunocompromised.
Whole Foods, which has three locations in Cambridge, will open for people over 60 one hour before it opens to the general public. The River Street location near Cambridge Port will open for seniors at 8:00 a.m. The Prospect Street location near Central Square will open for seniors at 7:00 a.m. The Fresh Pond location will open for seniors at 8:00 a.m.
    
 Learn about curbside pickup with online ordering



 We encourage you to do any necessary grocery shopping during these windows and/or reach out to stores directly to find out about their online ordering and curbside pickup options.
 
Call Ahead for Banking
With many local banks operating at reduced hours due to COVID-19, senior residents are encouraged to call ahead and make an appointment in order to help keep residents safe, healthy, and encourage social distancing to stop the spread of the virus. Contact information for local bank branches can be found here.



Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/food


Food Assistance
Food Pantry & Meal Program Information
The Cambridge Public Health Department (CPHD) has released guidance for food pantry managers on How to Safely Operate a Food Pantry During COVID-19.
Cambridge in Motion, coordinated by the Cambridge Public Health Department, is maintaining the most up to date information about food pantry and meal program operations in Cambridge. Click here to view.
 
Cambridge Community Food Line Update
As Cambridge follows the state’s reopening guidelines, many local food pantries will resume operation by July 1, 2020. In anticipation of this, the City and Food for Free will merge the Cambridge Community Food Line with Food for Free’s Home Delivery Program. This merge will ensure that Cambridge’s most vulnerable residents have access to a long-term, sustainable food delivery system. 
The program transition will occur during the month of June, with final Community Food Line deliveries the week of June 22nd, and the first week of Food for Free’s Home Delivery Program beginning the week of June 29th. All current participants in the Community Food Line have been contacted about their food assistance options. 
Cambridge residents who are over 60, immunocompromised, or have a disability and do not have a friend or relative that can go to a food pantry on their behalf, should call 617-349-9155 by Monday, June 8th to apply for Food for Free’s Home Delivery Program. For more information, click here. 
 
Senior Food Resources
If you are concerned about a senior’s access to food, please call the Council on Aging’s main line at 617-349-6220.
For seniors who are able to travel to grocery stores, special shopping hours are detailed below.
 
Special Grocery Store Hours
The Mayor, the City Council and the City Manager want to ensure our senior citizens have as much information as possible as we navigate the COVID-19 crisis.
It is incredibly important that residents over the age of 60, especially those with underlying health conditions, practice thorough personal hygiene and safe social distancing.
We also understand you will need to leave the house to obtain groceries and other items.
As of March 23, grocery stores in Massachusetts are now required to provide alternative hours for people over 60 in order to limit their potential exposure to COVID 19. This information must be posted and enforced. Many groceries stores also offer online ordering and/or curbside pickup for customers. Please visit their websites to learn more about what they offer.
Here is the most recent information we have on what local grocery store chains are doing to create specific shopping windows for people over 60:

Broadway Marketplace, 468 Broadway, is offering senior shopping hours 9 a.m.-10 a.m. Monday-Saturday. They are also offering curbside pickup of grocery items.
    
For curbside pickup: Seniors need to e-mail their order to george@broadwaymarketplace.com. Please include contact information. They will call for a payment method and schedule pick up. When at the curb, call 617-547-2335 and they’ll load your order into your vehicle.


Brothers Market, 1 Broadway, is dedicating 7:00-8:00 a.m. every day as a shopping hour for senior citizens and people with disabilities.
Market Basket, 400 Somerville Ave., Somerville will open exclusively for people over 60 every day from 6:00 a.m. – 7:00 a.m.
Pemberton Farms, 2225 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge will offer daily hours from 6:00 a.m. - 7:00 a.m. for customers ages 60 and over. They can also pull and deliver grocery for nearby customers. If interested, please email Denna at denna@pembertonfarms.com. Delivery fee is determined based on location. 
Stop & Shop, which has locations on McGrath Highway and Alewife Brook Parkway, will open exclusively for people over 60 and anyone with a weakened immune system each day from 6:00 a.m. – 7:30 a.m.
Star Market, which has locations in Porter Square, on Beacon Street, on Mt. Auburn St., and on McGrath Highway, will open on Tuesdays & Thursdays from 7:00 a.m. - 9:00 a.m. for senior citizens and other at-risk populations, such as pregnant women or those with compromised immune systems.

 Learn about curbside pickup with online ordering


Trader Joe's, which has locations at 211 Alewife Brook Parkway and 748 Memorial Drive, will open every day from 8:00 – 9:00 a.m. to anyone 60 or over and customers who with disabilities or who are immunocompromised.
Whole Foods, which has three locations in Cambridge, will open for people over 60 one hour before it opens to the general public. The River Street location near Cambridge Port will open for seniors at 8:00 a.m. The Prospect Street location near Central Square will open for seniors at 7:00 a.m. The Fresh Pond location will open for seniors at 8:00 a.m.
    
 Learn about curbside pickup with online ordering



 We encourage you to do any necessary grocery shopping during these windows and/or reach out to stores directly to find out about their online ordering and curbside pickup options.
As a reminder, to prevent the spread of COVID-19, City of Cambridge Senior Centers and Council on Aging are closed until further notice. General questions can be directed to the Council on Aging’s main line: 617-349-6220.
 
Summer Food Program
The Cambridge Summer Food Program aims to increase food security in Cambridge by providing free and nutritionally balanced breakfasts and lunches to anyone 18 years of age and under. During Summer 2020, the program will provide a variety of healthy and tasty meals (in vegetarian and non-vegetarian options) for young people in Cambridge.
Monday, June 22 through Friday, September 4, free bagged breakfasts and lunches will be served Monday through Friday from 12:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m. at the following locations:

Alewife
    35 Cambridge Park Drive
Fletcher-Maynard Academy
    225 Windsor Street
Haggerty School
    110 Cushing St.
King Open School
    840 Cambridge St.
Morse School
    40 Granite St.
Peabody School
    70 Rindge Ave.
Putnam Ave. Upper School
    100 Putnam Ave.
Rindge Towers
    362 Rindge Ave.

During meal distribution, staff will adhere to COVID-19 health and safety guidelines by wearing face coverings and gloves, sanitizing surfaces, and enforcing social distancing between staff and youth.

Plans to provide dinner meals during Summer 2020 are also in development. Details will be included on this webpage when available.

For more information, please contact SummerFood@cambridgema.gov or 617-349-6247 
 
Homeless Outreach & Support
With many shelter programs short staffed and no longer having the capacity to prepare meals on site, the city is in the preliminary stages of contracting with local restaurants in Central and Harvard Square to provide bag or boxed meals for lunch and for dinner to be delivered to the specified shelters and programs that have indicated a strong need for the meals. If restaurants are interested in participating in this program in the future, they should contact the Purchasing Department at purchasing@cambridgema.gov. For more, see this announcement.



Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/Housing


Housing Resources
During this time of crisis, the City of Cambridge is working hard to ensure that all our residents stay safe and healthy.
 
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui and City Manager Louis A. DePasquale have been working with the City Council and many City Departments to establish additional resources for residents who have been impacted by the Coronavirus/COVID-19.
 
The Community Development Department, the Department of Human Service Programs' Multi Service Center, and the City’s Housing Liaison are also working together to stay up to date on all court related information and to respond to your housing related questions and concerns. We understand that this crisis affects us all; tenants, homeowners, landlords and property management companies. We hope by working together we will keep our homes and our community intact.
 
Below is important information on various resources as well as some tips and frequently asked questions. We encourage you to reach out to any or all of the newly created resource lines and/or contact any of the staff listed below. 
 
Housing Resource Line
The Housing Resource Line was created to assist residents with general information and referral services for housing questions and concerns. To talk with a staff member please call 617-349-9777.
 
Cambridge Community Food Line
The Community Food Line was created to assist residents who are at high risk of food insecurity.  To talk with a staff member please call 617-349-9155.
 
Communication & Support for Seniors
The City of Cambridge Council on Aging is available for questions or assistance by calling 617-349-6220.
 
Eviction & Foreclosure Protections

The City of Cambridge issued a Temporary Emergency Eviction Order By the Commissioner of Public Health and the City Manager that Establishes a Moratorium on Eviction Enforcement as well as Non Essential Entry into Dwellings. Click here to learn more.
Governor Baker signed legislation into law to protect homeowners and tenants from eviction and foreclosure. An Act providing for a moratorium on evictions and foreclosures during the COVID-19 emergency ensures housing stability for residents and families. Click here to learn more.



Housing Support
If you or someone you know has a housing question or need, please call 617-349-9777 and leave a detailed message and someone will get back to you as soon as possible. If you are able to email, please contact us at the follow email addresses:

Maria Melo
    
Director of the Multi-Service Center mmelo@cambridgema.gov (fluent in Portuguese and Spanish)


Maura Pensak
    
Housing Liaison to the City Manager mpensak@cambridgema.gov 


Chris Cotter
    
Housing Director, Community Development Department ccotter@cambridgema.gov 



 

Tips and FAQs

I have lost income due to COVID-19 and will not be able to pay rent, will I be evicted?
On April 3, 2020, Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui, City Manager Louis A. DePasquale, and Commissioner of Public Health Dr. Assaad J. Sayah announced an Emergency Order “Establishing a Moratorium on Eviction Enforcement and Non-Essential Entry by Property Owners and Their Agents Into Occupied Dwelling Units in the City of Cambridge” for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic.
On April 20, 2020 Governor Baker signed legislation into law to protect homeowners and tenants from eviction and foreclosure. An Act providing for a moratorium on evictions and foreclosures during the COVID-19 emergency ensures housing stability for residents and families. Click here to learn more. The moratorium will remain in effect for either 120 days from today (Aug. 18) or 45 days following the end of the state of emergency, whichever is sooner. 
Even though you cannot be evicted, responsibility to pay rent continues and, once the moratorium is lifted eviction action can proceed.  HOWEVER, If you provide your management company or landlord proof that you fell behind or were unable to pay rent because of COVID-19, you cannot be charged late fees or, be reported to a credit agency for unpaid rent. 
You must inform your landlord within 30 days of when rent was due (for example if you have not paid May rent, you must provide written notification to the landlord by May 30).
You must include in the letter:
You experienced a financial impact from COVID-19 and you must include detailed information about the impact such as what your income was and how it has changed and why.
For more information and to access a form to use to report your financial impact go to: https://www.mass.gov/regulations/400-CMR-50-covid-19-emergency-regulations
I have lost income due to COVID-19 and will not be able to pay mortgage.
If you are concerned about making upcoming mortgage payments, you should contact your lender as soon as possible. They may put in place provisions for borrowers who are impacted by this crisis. These may include extending payment deadlines or creating payment plans when needed. It is important to contact lenders to discuss your situation, as missed payments can cause late and other collection fees to accrue. If you are having difficulty talking with your lender, please contact us the Housing Resource Line at 617-349-9777.
In addition, Homeowners in 1-4 family owner occupied properties are also protected by the April 20 State Moratorium.
For more information go to: https://www.mass.gov/regulations/400-CMR-50-covid-19-emergency-regulations
My Tenant just told me that lost their job and will have difficulty paying their rent for the next month.
If you are able, please consider working out a payment plan. Also, encourage your tenant to contact us to find out if there are any financial resources available by calling the Housing Resource Line at 617-349-9777.
In addition, if your tenant has a last month’s rent you may be able to use it for advance payment. For more information, go to: https://www.mass.gov/regulations/400-CMR-50-covid-19-emergency-regulations
My lease is up soon and my landlord wants to show the apartment, do I have to let someone in? 
Ask them if you can take pictures or a video to share and, refer them to the City of Cambridge Temporary Emergency Eviction Order that Establishes a Moratorium on Eviction Enforcement as well as Non Essential Entry into Dwellings.
I have applied to the Community Development Department for affordable rental or homeownership housing, how can I find updates?
Updates on the status of CDD’s affordable housing programs can be found here on the CDD website.  This information will be updated continually while City offices remain closed. 
I am concerned that my utilities will be shut off if I can't make a payment.
The Department of Public Utilities is suspending shut offs during the state of emergency. If you have any questions or are reliant on oil and have run out, please contact dhspfuel@cambridgema.gov or call 617-349-6252.
I have a housing court date scheduled in the coming weeks.
Courts have suspended all non-emergency actions, and courthouses are closed to the public except for stipulated emergency matters. However, there are different dates of closure depending on if you are scheduled to be in Housing Court or District Court. and of course, these dates may change depending on the extension or suspension of the declared State of Emergency. As of March 19, 2020 Matters in Housing Court will be rescheduled after April 21, 2020. Matters in District Court will be rescheduled after May 4, 2020. However, these dates could change and, you may receive information requiring a response prior to these dates. The court process can be overwhelming and confusing. During this crisis, it is especially confusing. Therefore, we strongly encourage you to contact us if you have a pending court date. You may also contact Cambridge and Somerville Legal Services at 617-603-2700 and/or refer to Greater Boston Legal Service’s update on the status of court closures and impacts on eviction court cases.
How do I apply for Unemployment Insurance?
You can file a claim with the Department of Unemployment Assistance (DUA)’s UI Online at www.mass.gov/lwd/unemployment-insur/claimants. UI Online is available daily from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 

Applying through UI Online is the fastest way to get UI benefits. UI Online is an English-only system. If you have trouble completing the application online, you can ask for help by filling out this form: https://www.mass.gov/forms/covid-19-department-of-unemployment-assistance-contact-request.
Assistance is also available in Spanish: https://www.mass.gov/forms/covid-19-solicitud-de-contacto-del-departamento-de-asistencia-al-desempleado
You can apply by telephone by calling 617-626-6800 or 877-626-6800 outside the 617 area code. There are dedicated phone lines for individuals who speak Spanish and Portuguese.
How do I apply for Food Stamps or Cash Assistance?
All local offices are closed to in person visits. However, you can still apply for benefits, follow this link https://dtaconnect.eohhs.mass.gov/DTA or call the DTA Assistance Line (877) 382- 2363.
How do I contact Social Security?
Social Security offices and service will be available on line or by calling. Please use their secure and convenient online services available at www.socialsecurity.gov/onlineservices or call 1- 800-772-1213 (TTY 1-800-325-0778). Also, a note of caution, there are many scammers out their, calling and saying they are from social security-do not call them back and do not give them information! Only use these lines, or a local line if you are given one by these links.
If I need healthcare for COVID-19 related issues as an immigrant, how can that affect my status?
USCIS says Immigrants can use health care to treat COVID-19 without penalty Here is the USCIS link: https://www.uscis.gov/greencard/public-charge




Additional Resources

Resources - Massachusetts Attorney General's Office
Immigrant Health Resources - Massachusetts Attorney General's Office
Tenants' Rights Information - Community Legal Aid








Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/children


Children and Families
Updates
(6/2/20) The Baker-Polito Administration issued detailed guidance for the reopening of programs that serve children and youth. Learn More.
Childcare Information

Emergency programs are being made available to those on a limited basis who have no other option for care during this public health crisis. Priority will be given to people including but not limited to health care workers, essential state and human service workers, COVID-19 health workers, grocery store employees, emergency response personnel, law enforcement, transportation and infrastructure workers, sanitation workers, DCF involved families, and families living in shelters.
For more information, and to view a list of Emergency Childcare Programs in Cambridge, visit Find It Cambridge.
For Providers


The Birth to 3rd Grade Partnership, a program of the Department of Human Services and Cambridge Public Schools, is providing resources to support early education and care (EEC) providers during the COVID-19 outbreak. Resources, including newsletters and upcoming trainings, are available on the  Birth to 3rd Grade Partnership webpage. If you have questions or need assistance, contact Lei-Anne Ellis at lellis@cpsd.us


Resources 

EEC providers are eligible to apply for an Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) from the US Small Business Administration (SBA). The loan must be submitted using the streamline application form. For more information, visit the COVID-19 Business Resources webpage.
ECC providers are eligible to apply for a loan from the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), which helps businesses keep their workforce employed during the COVID-19 crisis. PPP loans are made by banks; to find a bank that will make a PPP loan, click here and type in your zip code. Banks making PPP loans may differ in the documentation they require.
    
For assistance applying for the EIDL and/or PPL loans, contact Lei-Anne Ellis at lellis@cpsd.us
        and put “help” in the subject line of the email. 


EEC has partnered with Care.com to create a portal connecting essential workers to approved educators who are able to provide skills in-home care. 
For upcoming trainings and professional development opportunities, visit the Birth to 3rd Grade Partnership webpage.

For Families
At-Home Activities 

Find It Cambridge is regularly updating its “Virtual Activities at Home” category with online and at-home activities for people of all ages to enjoy. 
The Birth to Third Partnership provides information about activities that support learning and child development.

DHSP Summer 2020 Programming

During Summer 2020, the City of Cambridge Department of Human Service Programs (DHSP) will offer free Online/Offline Summer Programming to Cambridge children in Kindergarten through 8th grade. Sign up for a variety of online and in-person activities each week, including daily virtual gatherings with friends and counselors, virtual activities to engage with in real-time, offline projects to do at home - cooking, creating, crafting and more! - and outdoor play and exercise supervised by DHSP staff. Programming will be offered weekly, July 13th through August 21st.
Registration opens Monday, June 22nd. Children must have completed one year of Kindergarten and priority will be given to applicants eligible for free or reduced lunch.

For more information, visit www.finditcambridge.org/DHSPSummer2020


Summer Food Program
The Cambridge Summer Food Program aims to increase food security in Cambridge by providing free and nutritionally balanced breakfasts and lunches to anyone 18 years of age and under. During Summer 2020, the program will provide a variety of healthy and tasty meals (in vegetarian and non-vegetarian options) for young people in Cambridge.
Monday, June 22 through Friday, September 4, free bagged breakfasts and lunches will be served Monday through Friday from 12:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m. at the following locations:

Alewife
    35 Cambridge Park Drive
Fletcher-Maynard Academy
    225 Windsor Street
Haggerty School
    110 Cushing St.
King Open School
    840 Cambridge St.
Morse School
    40 Granite St.
Peabody School
    70 Rindge Ave.
Putnam Ave. Upper School
    100 Putnam Ave.
Rindge Towers
    362 Rindge Ave.

During meal distribution, staff will adhere to COVID-19 health and safety guidelines by wearing face coverings and gloves, sanitizing surfaces, and enforcing social distancing between staff and youth.

Plans to provide dinner meals during Summer 2020 are also in development. Details will be included on this webpage when available.

For more information, please contact SummerFood@cambridgema.gov or 617-349-6247. 


Multilingual Help

Español
Kreyòl Ayisyen
Português
বাংলা
አማርኛ
عربى
中文







Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/pwdresources


Resources for People with Disabilities
People with disabilities (PwD) and/or certain ongoing health problems, especially people who have problems with their lungs or with fighting off illness, are at a higher risk of getting very sick if they get COVID-19. The Cambridge Commission for Persons with Disabilities (CCPD) has put together this list of resources to help you get your basic needs met during this public health crisis.
 
Together we can keep our most vulnerable residents safe and healthy, both physically and mentally, by taking specific steps. The Cambridge Public Health Department has listed information about COVID-19 prevention, symptoms, testing, and care at cambridgema.gov/covid19/publichealth

If you or a loved one have a fever of 100.4˚F or higher, cough or shortness of breath, it is very important that you contact your doctor or primary healthcare provider for guidance.
If you do not have a primary healthcare provider or you have general questions about COVID-19, you can also call the Massachusetts COVID-19 Information Line at 2-1-1. 
If you are having a medical or mental health emergency, call or text 9-1-1 immediately.

To help prevent the spread of COVID-19, the CCPD office is closed until further notice. You can contact them with general disability-related questions by leaving a voicemail at (617) 349-4692 or emailing at ccpd@cambridgema.gov. Please remember that CCPD staff are unable to give any medical or legal advice.
 
To download a PDF-version of these resources, click here.
 

Important Information & Resources

Finding Accessible Information
Finding Information on COVID-19 in a Format that is Accessible to You

Live captioning of Cambridge City Council meetings is available through CART (communication access realtime translation) online in order to provide communication access for viewers who are deaf or hard of hearing. The captions will be streamed on a dedicated webpage, separate from the video feed of the meeting. Unfortunately, due to technical limitations, CART will only be available online. See cambridgema.gov/StreamCART for instructions for viewing the meetings with CART.
    
 City Council meetings are generally held every Monday at 5:30 p.m., excluding holidays and Council recesses.
The meeting agenda and video feed, as well as transcripts of past meetings, can be found on the City's Open Meeting Portal


Green Mountain Self Advocates has developed the following two guides forPwD, using plain language that is easy to understand:

COVID-19 Information By and For People with Disabilities
Tips For Working With Support Staff During COVID-19


The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has a series of videos with ASL and closed captioning on information regarding COVID-19, including how you can stay safe, how parents can support children, suggested coping strategies, and more. Visit their YouTube Channel at https://www.youtube.com/user/CDCStreamingHealth. 
The National Association for the Deaf has informational videos about COVID-19 in ASL and with captions: https://www.nad.org/2020/03/12/coronavirus/
The Massachusetts Commission for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (MCDHH) has created a Coronavirus Visual Tool to assist Medical Professionals and Deaf and hard of hearing individuals to communicate better during medical appointments. There is both a large print version, as well as one that is screen-reader accessible. It is also provided in Spanish.
Information for people who are at higher risk for COVID-19 can be found on the CDC’s website.
The Administration for Community Living (ACL) has helpful information on what older adults and PwD need to  know regarding COVID-19, planning, preventing illness, and more.

Civil Rights & Non-Discrimination During COVID-19
Civil Rights & Non-Discrimination During COVID-19

MA Attorney General Healey Issues Guidance on Disability Rights During COVID-19 Pandemic, including on the 
    following topics:

Workplace Rights
Healthcare Rights
Public Accommodations (grocery stores, retail establishments, restaurants, etc.)
Reasonable Accommodations
The AG's Civil Rights Division urges individuals with disabilities who feel their rights have been violated to call the hotline at 617-963-2917 or file a complaint online.


The Office of Civil Rights (OCR) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has issued a notice reminding entities such as state and local governments and healthcare facilities that they cannot discriminate against people with disabilities. For example:

People with disabilities cannot be denied medical care on the basis of assumptions about their quality of life or how worthy their lives are of saving.
Government officials, healthcare providers and other covered entities must provide effective communication for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, blind, or who have other disabilities affecting communication.
The needs of PwD must be included in emergency planning.


This notice also provides information on HIPAA healthcare privacy rules during this public health emergency
If you believe that a covered entity violated your civil rights, conscience and religious freedom, or health information privacy rights, you may file a complaint at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/complaints.

Food Resources & Special Grocery Store Hours
Food Resources & Special Grocery Store Hours
 
Cambridge residents who are over 60, immunocompromised, or have a disability and do not have a friend or relative that can go to a food pantry on their behalf, should apply to Food for Free’s Home Delivery Program: http://foodforfree.org/home-delivery/.
 
As of March 23, grocery stores in Massachusetts are required to provide alternative hours for people over 60 in order to limit their potential exposure to COVID 19. Several local grocery stores are also providing special hours to people who are immunocompromised, who have disabilities, or who are otherwise at high risk for COVID-19, even if they are under the age of 60:


Brothers Market, located at 1 Broadway, is dedicating 7:00-8:00 a.m. every day as a shopping hour for senior citizens and people with disabilities.
Stop & Shop, which has locations on McGrath Highway and Alewife Brook Parkway, will open exclusively for people over 60 and anyone with a weakened immune system each day from 6:00 a.m. – 7:30 a.m.
Star Market, which has locations in Porter Square, on Beacon Street, on Mt. Auburn St., and on McGrath Highway, will open on Tuesdays & Thursdays from 7:00 a.m. - 9:00 a.m. for senior citizens and other at-risk populations, such as pregnant women or those with compromised immune systems.
Trader Joes, which has locations at 211 Alewife Brook Parkway and 748 Memorial Drive, will open every day from 8:00 – 9:00 a.m. to anyone 60 or over and customers who with disabilities or who are immunocompromised.
Whole Foods, which has three locations in Cambridge does not have special hours for PwD under 60, but all of their Cambridge locations are offering curbside pick-up of grocery orders.

Personal Care Attendants/Assistants (PCAs)
Personal Care Attendants/Assistants (PCAs)

If you or a loved one is a MassHealth member who receives services from a Personal Care Attendant (PCA) but are short PCAs during the COVID19 outbreak, call the MassOptions hotline at 1-844-422-6277 for help getting home services. 
If your PCA is worried about being stopped and questioned as to whether or not they are an essential worker, have them keep a copy of this letter from MassHealth for PCAs designating them as essential workers: https://bostoncil.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Covid-19-PCA-Essential-Letter.pdf
For detailed guidance and updates on PCA services during the health crisis, see https://www.mass.gov/doc/pca-consumer-guidance-482020/download

Information for MassHealth Members
Information for MassHealth Members:
 
Mass Health is a provider for many People with Disabilities and is providing extra coverage for members during the COVID-19 crisis. Here is important information to be aware of:

You will not lose your MassHealth coverage during the COVID-19 national emergency, even if you received a letter in the mail stating that your coverage is ending on or after March 18.
MassHealth covers testing and treatment for all coverage types and health plans.
During the COVID-19 outbreak, MassHealth is covering telehealth services for both physical and behavioral health when appropriate.
MassHealth is also allowing early refills and 90-day supplies of medications, as well as medication delivery, during the COVID-19 outbreak.
As a MassHealth member, you can receive comprehensive behavioral health care, including services delivered over the phone, via live video, or other telehealth platforms.

Mental Health Resources
Mental Health Resources

If you are experiencing a crisis, the National Disaster Distress Helpline is available with 24/7 emotional support and crisis counseling for anyone experiencing distress or other mental health concerns. Calls (1-800-985-5990) and texts (text TalkWithUs to 66746) are answered by trained counselors who will listen to your concerns, explore coping and other available supports, and offer referrals to community resources for follow-up care and support
Information on maintaining Emotional Health & Well-Being During the COVID-19 Outbreak is available on the State’s website.  
The Boston Center for Independent Living (BCIL) is hosting virtual social groups, open to anyone with a disability.
Many health insurers, including MassHealth, are covering both mental and medical appointments that are done by phone or a video platform. If you have private health insurance, check to see if they are providing this coverage. If you already have mental health providers, reach out to them to see if they are providing phone appointments.
If you need help finding a mental health provider in your area, visit the Network of Care.  
    McLean Hospital has a number of online resources to help community members practice good self-care and maintain their mental health, including on combatting loneliness; how to speak with children on what’s going on; reducing anxiety; working for home; and a lot more.
You can also access remote support through Recovery Learning Communities (RLCs), which provide 1-on-1 peer support and peer groups. 
If you or a loved one is struggling with a substance use disorder, you can call the Department of Public Health’s helpline at (800) 327-5050 or visit www.helplinema.org.

The Boston Center for Independent Living (BCIL) Resources
The Boston Center for Independent Living (BCIL) Resources

BCIL is a non-profit organization that provides individual services and systemic advocacy across a number of areas critical to people with disabilities, including housing, healthcare, employment, long-term care, transportation, adaptive technology, communications, civil rights law, and education.
BCIL has many COVID-19 resources for PwD.


If you are in need of services you can visit BCIL’s website at https://www.bostoncil.org/ or call BCIL at 617-338-6665 or 617-338-6662 TTY. You can also email BCIL directly at contactBCIL@boston.org. 
Abuse, Neglect, Domestic Violence, & Sexual Assault Resources for PwD
Abuse, Neglect, Domestic Violence, & Sexual Assault Resources for PwD
This information is provided by the Boston Center for Independent Living (BCIL):
The COVID pandemic has altered how people are living—less interaction with others, more isolation, less income, and more stresses in some cases. Such situations can result in neglect, abuse, domestic violence, and sexual assault. If this is happening to you or someone you know, you can contact the resources below or BCIL, and they will assist you to get the support you may need from one of these resources.

If you suspect abuse or neglect of a person with disabilities, please contact the following agency for their age group:
    
Ages birth-17: The Department of Children and Families at 1-800-792-5200 (for all children, not just those with disabilities)
Ages 18-59: The Disabled Persons Protection Commission hotline at 1-800-426-9009 (voice) or 1-888-822-0350 (TTY)
Ages 60+: The Executive Office of Elder Affairs at 1-800-922-2275
For people with disabilities of all ages who are residing in long term care facilities: The Department of Public Health at 1-800-462-5540


Boston Area Rape Crisis Center:For assistance 24 hours a day, call their hotline at 800-841-8371
The National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-799-7233 / 1-800-787-3224 (TTY) or SafeLink at 877-521-2601 / 877-521-2601 (TTY)
For resources for survivors of domestic violence or sexual assault, visit Futures Without Violence.

Please reach out if you need help. You can call BCIL at 617-338-6665 or send an email to contactBCIL@bostoncil.org.
 
Stimulus Funds
Stimulus Funds

People receiving Social Security benefits (SSI or SSDI) who do not usually file a tax return will automatically receive the stimulus money that they government is providing for individuals who meet the income guidelines.
For detailed information on the stimulus funds being issued by the federal government, including eligibility, visit https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/economic-impact-payments-what-you-need-to-know
You can check the status of your payment online at https://www.irs.gov/coronavirus/get-my-payment 







Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov/https://www.cpsd.us/athome


Server Error in '/' Application.


Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov/covid19/updates





Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/News/2020/06/trafficpatternchangecomingtoinmansquarejuly1


Traffic Pattern Change Coming to Inman Square July 1
June 30, 2020

		Starting July 1, the City will reallocate roadway space to create outdoor dining space on the north and south sides of Cambridge St between Springfield St and Oak St, and on the north side of Cambridge St between Oakland St and Prospect St. On the north side of the street, the areas will convert to loading and short-term parking when they are not being used for dining. 
Additional parking will be available in seven back-in angled parking spaces which will be created on Cambridge St in the block between Oak St and Oakland St. 
On Cambridge St from Springfield St to Prospect St, motor vehicle travel will be limited to the westbound direction (towards Harvard Square). Motor vehicles going in the eastbound direction will be detoured via Hampshire St and Prospect St. People walking and biking many continue to go in both directions through this area. 
The City is coordinating with the MBTA to make changes to the bus stops for Route 69 passengers headed towards Lechmere. 
Download Flyer
Learn more about Street Changes being made in response to COVID-19
For additional information, please contact the Traffic Department at tpt@cambridgema.gov, 617-349-4359 (voice),  or 711 (relay).



Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/News/2020/06/covid19emergencyandrecoverygrantsforcambridgenonprofitorganizations


COVID-19 Emergency and Recovery Grants for Cambridge Nonprofit Organizations
June 30, 2020

Overview
The intent of this funding is to provide COVID-19 related assistance and critical supports to the vulnerable and at-risk Cambridge families and individuals served by Cambridge nonprofit organizations. The nonprofits are a critical resource to support vulnerable residents and this is especially true during the coronavirus pandemic.  The Community Benefits Advisory Committee worked collaboratively among its members and with the Cambridge Nonprofit Coalition to develop the approach to funding that is described below. In developing this approach, the Committee has prioritized simplicity, expediency, and equity for eligible entities, as well as maximizing the flexibility of the funding within City and state legal mandates. 
The Community Benefits Advisory Committee acts on the Guiding Principles for Community Benefits Funding, adopted by the Cambridge City Council, and makes recommendations to the City Manager for the approval of grant awards with nonprofit organizations to deliver services. Grants must be aligned with the Cambridge Community Needs Assessment.
Contact Information
Please direct all communications and questions to: communitybenefits@cambridgema.gov.  Inquiries will be responded to within 24 hours during the City’s business hours.
Use of Funding
The funding can be used to enable grantees to deliver or redesign services to vulnerable residents during the COVID-19 emergency and recovery; this includes planning work done to prepare for the delivery of services and/or resources necessary for facilitating the delivery of services, and could entail staffing, furnishings, equipment, technology, and/or supplies that enable service delivery that would not otherwise be possible or would otherwise suffer as a result of COVID-19. Services must respond to the needs identified in the Cambridge Community Needs Assessment and are subject to the requirements of the Community Benefits Advisory Committee Ordinance, Chapter 2.127 of the Municipal Code.  
Award Amount
$10,000 per entity – with $6,000 to be distributed following the signing of a grant agreement between the City and the grantee, and the remaining amount to be distributed upon the City’s receipt of a final invoice and brief report about services delivered; the funds must be expended no later than 6 months from the date of the grant agreement, and can be expended sooner.  
Number of Awards
Up to 100.
Eligibility
To be considered for this funding, each entity must meet each of the following eligibility criteria: 

Is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization or, if not a 501(c)3, has a fiscal sponsor that is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization. It is preferred that a fiscal sponsor be based in Cambridge, but not a requirement.
Has a location in Cambridge that serves Cambridge residents. 
Is able to expend the funds within 6 months of entering a grant agreement with the City
Is addressing one or more of the needs from the Cambridge Community Needs Assessment that are a direct result of, or have been intensified by, the COVID-19 pandemic. These needs include Affordable Housing and Homelessness; Financial Security; Mental Health: Behavioral Health and Substance Abuse; Food; Civic Engagement and Social Capital; Education; Employment; Safety; Transportation; Arts, Culture, and Recreation; Health; and Built and Natural Environment.  There is no added eligibility benefit to organizations that will address multiple needs. 

Application and Review Process and Timeline

7/1/20:  Application released
7/10/20:  Application deadline - Submissions due by 12:00 pm
Each application received will be reviewed by City staff to determine if eligibility criteria are met
    
City staff will notify any entity if its application does not meet eligibility criteria.
Each eligible application that is received by the application deadline will be assigned a number. 


The Community Benefits Advisory Committee will recommend to the City Manager funding for up to 100 eligible applicants
    
If 100 or fewer eligible applications are received before the application deadline, the Committee anticipates recommending all for funding.
If more than 100 eligible applications are received before the application deadline, the Community Benefits Advisory Committee will conduct a random lottery drawing during a public Community Benefits Advisory Committee meeting to determine which organizations will be recommended for the 100 grants.



Grant Agreements 
A 501(c)3 nonprofit organization that is awarded a grant will enter into an agreement with the City of Cambridge.  Download a sample agreement. 
 
Application Process 
Please APPLY HERE to submit your application. If you have any technical difficulties or want to request an electronic version of the application, please contact  communitybenefits@cambridgema.gov
 

 



Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov/https://app.smartsheet.com/b/form/fd34ec7de3e4403faa5bd53f11bfc63f


Server Error in '/' Application.


Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov/https://www.mass.gov/info-details/travel-information-related-to-covid-19#travel-to-massachusetts


Server Error in '/' Application.


Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//covid19/facecoverings


Face Coverings
Updates

(6/27/20) The City has amended the Emergency Order requiring face coverings. During the summer months (i.e., from June 23,2020 until midnight on September 22, 2020) masks or cloth face coverings may be temporarily removed when outdoors when a physical distance of at least six (6) feet from others can be maintained at all times. Additionally, clarifying language has been added to allow for the removal of masks for dining at food establishments in the city, including outdoor dining.
(5/11/20) The City of Cambridge are distributing free face masks at the Cambridge Police Department, which is located at 125 6th Street, 7 days a week between the hours of 11 a.m.- 1 p.m. or until daily supplies are depleted. Officers in every marked Cambridge Police cruiser will have a supply of masks to distribute if they encounter residents without them during calls for service. Additionally, Homeless Outreach Officers will have an available supply and will proactively seek out and provide masks to residents who may not have access to a mask. If residents or organizations are looking to buy or make their own masks and face coverings, please see below for more information.
(5/1/20) The Baker-Polito Administration has ordered all residents over the age of two to use a face covering or mask in public places where maintaining proper social distancing measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 are not possible. Learn more.

 
Cambridge Face Covering Order
The City of Cambridge issued an emergency order requiring that face coverings be worn in all public places, businesses and common areas of residential buildings. The original order took effect at 12:01 a.m. on Wednesday, April 29, and applies to everyone over the age of five years old, with exceptions in alignment with guidelines provided by the Centers for Disease Control or Massachusetts Department of Public Health. Violations may be punishable by a $300 fine. 
“While we are grateful to those in Cambridge who have been heeding our previous mask advisory and taking this issue seriously, we are concerned about the number of residents who continue to shop, walk, run and bike throughout the city without proper face coverings,” said Mayor Siddiqui and City Manager DePasquale in a joint statement. “We must all do our part in flattening the curve and make sure we are preventing the further spread of COVID-19. This mandate emphasizes the importance of wearing a face covering, not as an option, but as a requirement in our effort to combat this pandemic together.”
The order applies to everyone over five years old “without limitation, when on, in or about” public places, defined as:

Sidewalks
Streets
Parks
Plazas
Bus stops
Non-residential parking lots and garages
Any other outdoor area or non-residential parking facility which is open and accessible to the general public.

During the summer months,  masks or cloth face coverings may be temporarily removed when outdoors when a physical distance of at least six (6) feet from others can be maintained at all times
The mask requirement also applies to anyone working in or visiting an essential business, as well as shoppers and consumers. Masks must remain on throughout shifts or visits to those businesses. The businesses covered under the order, include:

Grocery stores or supermarkets
Pharmacies
Laundromats
Dry cleaners
Hardware stores
Restaurants, cafes or similar establishments where prepared foods, meals or beverages may be purchased (the removal of masks for indoor and outdoor dining at food establishments in the city is allowed)
Local government buildings
Commercial office buildings
All essential businesses defined in Governor Baker’s March 23, 2020 Executive Order

In residential buildings of two or more units when people cannot maintain a 6 foot distance, masks will be required prior to entering any common area, including:

Lobbies
Hallways
Elevators
Stairwells
Laundry rooms
Garages or parking lots
Walkways
Yards and other outdoor common areas
Mailrooms and other indoor common areas

 
The City’s Temporary Emergency Order Requiring the Wearing of Masks or Face Coverings in all Public Places, Businesses, and in Common Areas of Residential Buildings was amended on May 25, 2020 and on June 23, 2020.
 

Tips and FAQs

Is the City distributing masks?
The City of Cambridge announced a new initiative in which thousands of face masks will be distributed by members of the Cambridge Police Department to residents throughout the community beginning Thursday, April 30. The new initiative is in part made possible by a large donation of masks from the MA Chinese Community and FoGuang Buddhist Temple to the Office of Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui.
Masks will be made available to residents on a first-come, first-served basis while supplies last and quantities will be limited to the number of residents in a household. Masks will be made available at the following locations and through various city resources:
Meal Distribution Sites
Masks are available at the Cambridge Police Department, which is located at 125 6th Street, 7 days a week between the hours of 11 a.m.- 1 p.m. or until daily supplies are depleted. . 

Officers in every marked Cambridge Police cruiser will have a supply of masks to distribute if they encounter residents without them during calls for service. Additionally, Homeless Outreach Officers will have an available supply and will proactively seek out and provide masks to residents who may not have access to a mask. 

Residents who already have masks and/or the resources at home to make cloth masks are encouraged to defer supplies to those residents and families who are most in need.

More information on face mask distribution is available here.
Why should I wear a face mask or covering?
While many Cambridge residents have been taking seriously all advisories to wear face masks, there are residents who continue to shop, walk, and run throughout the city without proper face coverings. There is data that suggests that COVID-19 may be spread by people who are not showing symptoms.
 
Wearing a face covering may help people who are asymptomatic (they never experience symptoms) or presymptomatic (that is, they may have the virus yet don’t show any symptoms) from transmitting COVID-19 to others. Most non-medical face coverings are not intended to protect the wearer from getting sick.
 
It is vitally important to remember that a face covering does not replace frequent handwashing, avoiding touching the face or mask exterior, staying 6 feet from others when outside, and staying away from people who are ill. These are the most important and effective steps you can take to prevent the spread of COVID-19. 


Does this Emergency Order apply to everyone in Cambridge?

This emergency order applies to all people over the age of 5, excluding those who:

Are 5 years old or younger
Have trouble breathing
Are unconscious, incapacitated, or not able to remove the mask without assistance. 



Face masks should be worn in all outdoor public locations when it is not possible to reliably and consistently maintain social distance (6 feet) and when entering any business open to the public. (See question below for more details.)


Do I need to wear my face covering or mask every time I go outside?

Mostly, yes.  Everyone over the age of 5 years old must  wear a mask or cloth face covering that covers both the mouth and nose at all times when in public and where others may be present. Public spaces include:

Sidewalks
Streets
Parks
Plazas
Bus stops
Non-residential parking lots and garages
Any other public outdoor area 
Nonresidential parking facility which is open and accessible to the general public



It is important that you keep your face covering on while outside if there is any reasonable chance of encountering another person. If you need to take off your face mask, make sure to keep it close by so that you can put it back on quickly and properly should you come into close contact with another person.
 
To take off your covering, grab the strings or loops, being very careful not to touch the front of the covering nor your eyes, nose or mouth.


Do I have to wear my mask inside as well as outside?
Yes, there are a number of indoor spaces where everyone who is able must wear a face mask or cloth covering.
 
In all places of business open to the public.
 
Everyone over the age of 5 must wear a face mask or covering when entering any business open to the public, including:

Grocery stores and supermarkets
Pharmacies
Laundromats
Dry cleaners 
Hardware stores 
Restaurants/ cafes or similar establishments where prepared foods/ meals or beverages may be purchased
Local government buildings 
Commercial office buildings 

 
You should wear your mask the entire time that you are inside these places of business just as you should while walking down the sidewalk.  All places of business are required to post signage at the entrances to their buildings informing the public that masks or cloth face coverings must be worn at all times inside (and outside nearby).
It is important that you not take off your face covering while inside the building. If you need to take off your face mask, make sure to keep it close by so that you can put it back on quickly and properly should you come into close contact with another person.
Employees, contractors, or visitors to a COVID-19 essential business
All employees, contractors, or visitors to COVID-19 essential businesses must wear a mask or a cloth face covering before entering any COVID-19 essential business and for the entire time that they are on the premises.  
In addition to wearing masks or face coverings, all essential businesses should continue to keep in place additional measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19 including: 

Providing disposable gloves and hand sanitizer to all employees for use on items that are being sold, sent, or transported off-site.
Requiring employees to wash hands, even where gloves are worn, with soapy water at regular intervals (every thirty minutes for publicly accessible businesses) and providing handwashing stations.
Requiring employees to maintain a distance of 6 feet at all times practicable.
Screening employees for symptoms of COVID-19 prior to allowing them on work sites.
Ordering sick employees to stay at home.

Do I need to wear a mask inside if I live in an apartment building (or any location with more than one apartment)?
Everyone over the age of 5 years old who lives in an apartment building or location with more than one apartment should maintain proper physical distancing (also referred to as “social distancing”) in all common spaces by maintaining at least 6 feet between themselves and others. If you are not able to be at least 6 feet from others, then you must wear a mask in these common spaces, which include:

Lobby
Hallways
Elevators
Stairwells
Laundry rooms
Garage or parking lots
Walkways 
Yards
Other common outdoor and indoor areas shared by more than one apartment/townhouse when 6 feet of separation cannot reliably and consistently be maintained. 

 
All residential buildings are required to post signage in or near all common spaces regarding physical distancing and mask wearing.


What if I am unable to wear a mask due to a preexisting health condition or physical or mental disability?

If you are unable to wear a mask due to an underlying health condition, or a physical or mental disability (that prevents you from breathing properly or prohibits you from putting on and taking off your mask properly), please do NOT wear a mask. 
 
This includes people who:

Are 5 years old or younger
Have trouble breathing
Are unconscious, incapacitated, or not able to remove the mask without assistance. 



If you cannot wear a mask and need or want to go outside or to a place of business, please take important physical distancing precautions:

Maintain a safe separation of at least 6 feet from others while outside, as well as inside any office or other building.
Avoid crowds of any size.
Try to visit grocery stores and pharmacies when they are less crowded.

How do I properly wear a cloth face covering or mask?
All face coverings should:

Fit snugly, but comfortably against the side of the face.
Be secured with ties or ear loops.
Include multiple layers of fabric.
Allow for breathing without restriction (cloth face coverings should not be placed on young children under age 5, persons who have trouble breathing, or anyone who is unconscious, incapacitated or otherwise unable to remove the mask without assistance).
Be able to be laundered and machine dried without damage or change to shape. 
Be frequently washed using a washing machine with detergent and hot water and dried on a hot cycle. They can also be hand washed with soap and warm water, and left to dry.

 
After wearing your face mask, you should remove it carefully, avoiding touching your nose, eyes, or mouth until the face covering has been properly disposed of or placed carefully away to be washed and you should immediately wash your hands after removal. 


Should I wear a face mask or covering while I exercise?
Yes! Everyone is required to wear a mask, even to exercise.
 
If you are exercising and need to remove your face covering to breathe adequately, make sure no one is near you before removing it. Be sure to keep the face covering readily available so you can put it back on quickly and properly if someone comes within 6 feet of you.
 
It’s also important for you to stay at least 6 feet away from others while you are exercising outside. Only engage in types of exercise that allow you to keep a 6 foot physical distance from others and that don’t require shared equipment or close contact with others.


What precautions do I need to take when removing my face mask or covering?

Wash your hands for 20 seconds with soap and water every time you put on and take off the face covering. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. 
Do not touch your eyes, nose, or mouth when you remove the face covering. 
Do not put a used face covering in places where others can touch them or where germs trapped in your face covering can touch other surfaces, such as counter tops or a kitchen table. 
Do not throw your face covering loose in a bag or backpack. Keep a paper or plastic bag with you to store your face covering if you will be taking it off when outside the house.

How often should I wash my face mask or covering? 
It is recommended that you wash your face covering once a day by hand or machine using detergent. The face covering should be fully dry before using it again.  
 
Disposable “procedure” masks cannot be washed, but may be used in a 5-7 day rotation to allow viral particles to become non-viable on the outer surface of the mask. 


My organization wants to help make masks - how do we do that?
Face Masks for Cambridge is an effort to establish one central place for organizations and people in Cambridge to request handmade cloth face masks that are being sewn by local volunteers. This is a collaboration between Many Helping Hands 365, Mask Up, and the Cambridge Volunteer Clearinghouse with coordination support from the Cambridge Public Health Department. See the questions below for how you or your organization can give or get mask(s).Other sewing collaboratives are invited to join. Please email Deanna at the Cambridge Public Health Department at dewu@challiance.org for more information.
I sew masks - where can I donate them?
Face Masks for Cambridge is an effort to establish one central place for organizations and people in Cambridge to request handmade cloth face masks that are being sewn by local volunteers. This is a collaboration between Many Helping Hands 365, Mask Up, and the Cambridge Volunteer Clearinghouse with coordination support from the Cambridge Public Health Department. If you or anyone you know would like to sew masks and donate them to Cambridge nonprofits, please contact Emily Dexter at masks@cambridgevolunteers.org. Emily is coordinating this effort.
My organization needs masks - how can we get them?
If your organization is in need of masks, please submit your request through this Google Form. Groups involved in this effort can claim your request and someone will be in touch with you directly. 
I need a face covering - where can I get one? Is it possible for me to make my own face covering?
You can make your face covering easily at home by using a scarf, bandana or other cotton cloth. There are a number of easy “do it yourself” videos and instructions to help you make your own cloth face covering at home, including:

The CDC website has a few patterns, including one that involves a coffee filter and another that requires no sewing — just scissors and the willingness to sacrifice a T-shirt! Surgeon General Jerome Adams released a video of himself making a mask out of cloth and rubber bands.
Cambridge Health Alliance also offers a “how to” here.
A simple no-sew mask that has a bridge for your nose, which can help keep your glasses from fogging up.
Take the Choose Your Mask quiz. Answer a few questions to find an easy, no-sew mask you can make and feel comfortable wearing.



 
Homemade cloth masks can be found online. Look for ones made of cotton. If you order online, places like Etsy, which you can filter by location, allow you to support someone local and get a delivery more quickly. In addition, Esmeralda, a jewelry and accessory store in Harvard Square, sells masks for toddlers, kids, and adults via its online store www.EsmeraldaStore.com. They are delivering orders placed on their website to Cambridge customers within 24 hours. Cambridge Volunteer Clearinghouse has launched a BOGO (Buy One Give One) mask-raiser for individuals, starting at $10 per two masks. You can learn more here. 
Residents who already have masks and/or the resources at home to make cloth masks are encouraged to defer supplies to those residents and families who are most in need.


What is the evidence regarding face coverings as an effective way to stop the spread of COVID-19?  
The most effective way to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 is through proper physical distancing by maintaining at least 6 feet between you and everyone else. Washing your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds is also a necessary and highly effective way to limit or prevent the spread of the virus.
 
In very densely populated cities like Cambridge, it can be extremely difficult to regularly physically distance yourself from others. Per the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, we now know that a significant portion of individuals with coronavirus don’t ever experience symptoms (they are asymptomatic) or have not yet developed symptoms (they are pre-symptomatic) and can transmit the virus to others..  This means that the virus can spread between people interacting in close proximity—for example, talking, singing , yelling, coughing, or sneezing—even if those people are not exhibiting symptoms. 
 
Additionally, with observations that some people in Cambridge are not practicing physical distancing nor wearing masks when in close proximity to others, the City determined that wearing a face mask is a necessary step to prevent further spread of COVID-19 in Cambridge and to flatten the curve.
 
The full Temporary Emergency Order may be found here.





 
Make Your Own Face Coverings
As a reminder, face covering is not a substitute for physical distancing and regular hand washing, which remain among the most effective ways to slow the spread of COVID-19. The single most effective way to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 is to stay home.
A face covering can be: 

A mask
A scarf
A bandana 
Made from a t-shirt or other cloth

 
Quick Cut T-Shirt Face Covering (no sew method)

 
Bandana Face Covering (no sew method)

More Information

Amended City of Cambridge Emergency Order Requiring Use of Face Coverings (PDF)
Governor Baker's Order Requiring Face Coverings in Public Places Where Social Distancing is Not Possible (PDF)
Guidance for Residents on Wearing Face Coverings During COVID-19 (PDF)
Face Coverings Flyer for Businesses/Public Places (PDF)
    
Flyers also available in multiple languages


Use of Cloth Face Coverings to Help Slow the Spread of COVID-19 (PDF)
Cloth Face Coverings: Questions and Answers from the CDC

 


Videos



How to Make Your Own Face Covering




ASL Use of Cloth Face Coverings








Scraping from https://www.cambridgema.gov//-/media/Files/citymanagersoffice/COVID19/amendedtemporaryemergencyconstructionorder_052020.pdf


