


Scraping from http://whatcomcounty.us/3377/Media-Press





Scraping from http://whatcomcounty.us/3404/Masks-and-Face-Coverings



Masks and Face Coverings		
Page updated: Wednesday, July 8, 2:55 pmI am looking for...Why Wear a Face CoveringWhere You Need To Wear A Face CoveringWho Should Wear a Face CoveringWhat Kind of Face Coverings to UseHow to Properly Wear Face CoveringsWhere to Get a Face Covering If You Can’t Buy OneInformation for Deaf, Hard of Hearing, and Deafblind Community MembersGuidance For Businesses and EmployersEnforcementCloth Face Coverings and Masks FAQMask Donation InformationThere are currently three face covering orders in place for Washington State:Starting June 8, 2020, employers are required to provide face coverings that must be worn by all employees who don’t work alone at no cost to the employee. Starting June 26, 2020, all individuals must wear a face covering in indoor public spaces and in outdoor public settings when you can’t stay six feet apart from others.Starting July 7, 2020, businesses are required and enforce the use of face coverings by all customers, clients, and visitors.For more information, see this overview of COVID-19 statewide face covering requirements and the Washington State Coronavirus Response website face masks page.Why Wear a Face CoveringFace coverings are an additional tool we can use to stop the spread of COVID-19 in our community. They protect others by blocking droplets that contain the virus from spreading to others when someone with the infection coughs, sneezes, or speaks.Face coverings do not replace the need for frequent handwashing or social distancing measures.Where You Need To Wear A Face CoveringWashington State residents and visitors must wear face coverings in most public settings. Wear a face covering when you are at any indoor or outdoor public space where you may be within six feet of someone who does not live with you.Public spaces include:Stores that sell food and beverages, such as grocery stores, pharmacies, convenience stores, and farmer’s markets.Retail stores, such as auto supply stores, hardware stores, and garden stores. Restaurant take-out businesses. Employees who prepare, carry out, and deliver food must wear masks.Buses, rideshares, and other forms of public transportation.Workplaces for manufacturing, agriculture, construction, and other trades.Outdoor public settings when you cannot maintain six feet of distance between yourself and others.This order will remain in effect until it is repealed or replaced by the Secretary of Health, or until it is ended by the Governor.Who Should Wear a Face CoveringEveryone is required to wear face coverings in public settings unless they are in one of the following groups:Children younger than five years old:Children who are younger than two years old should never wear face coverings due to risk of suffocation. It is strongly recommended that children who are two to four years old use face coverings in public settings with the assistance and close supervision of an adult. Persons with a medical condition, mental health condition, or disability that prevents wearing a face covering. This includes, but is not limited to, persons with a medical condition for whom wearing a face covering could obstruct breathing, who are unconscious, incapacitated, or otherwise unable to remove a face covering without assistance.What Kind of Face Coverings to UseFace coverings are also called cloth masks, face coverings, or face masks. You can use:Cloth face maskScarvesBandanas Face coverings should fit snugly over your nose and mouth. Do not use medical masks or N95 respirators. These should be saved for healthcare workers and people who have special health needs.  The CDC has sew, and no sew, instructions for making your own face covering. If you would rather purchase a face covering there are a variety online retail options. For more information see this document about what type of face covering to use.How to Properly Wear Face Coverings Your mask should cover your nose and mouth at all times.Always wash your hands with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer before you put on a face covering and after removing it.Change your face covering when it gets moist.Wash your face covering after each use.Learn more about how to appropriately wear a face covering here: EnglishSpanishRussianAdditional guidance on using face coverings is available from the Washington State Department of Health.Where to Get a Face Covering If You Can’t Buy OneThe CDC has information on how to make your own face covering.GetUsPPE has many mask patterns that have been reviewed by medical personnel. The Hearing Speech and Deafness Center has Instructions for Clear Window Masks. To help individuals in need of a mask, Whatcom Unified Command has distributed more than 137,000 masks to social service partners throughout Whatcom County who have and will continue to, distribute masks to their clients and subsidiary agencies. The distribution includes agencies that provide direct service or support to populations that are vulnerable or low-income, such as:Food banksLummi Nation and Nooksack TribeAll public school districts (distributed by Bellingham School District)Whatcom Homeless Service CenterCouncil on AgingOpportunity Council, andSea Mar Community Health CenterIf you are an individual in need of a mask, please contact your local food bank or social service provider. If you are an agency that serves individuals who are low income and reside in Whatcom County, Lummi Reservation, or Nooksack Reservation, Whatcom Unified Command has partnered with the North Sound Accountable Community of Health to distribute 40,000 cloth masks to our community’s most vulnerable residents. Request cloth masks on this form. If you are a business in need of face coverings or masks, Whatcom Unified Command distributed 100,000 to local Chambers of Commerce in June to help businesses reopen.  Check the Bellingham Regional Chamber of Commerce website for details and current availability. Access a copy of local vendors for masks and other personal protective equipment on the Whatcom Unified Command’s website. Information for Deaf, Hard of Hearing, and Deafblind Community MembersThis directive affects community members who are deaf, hard of hearing, or deafblind in different ways than others. We’ve compiled resources to explain how the directive applies to you if you are deaf, hard of hearing, or deafblind.Resources from Public Health Seattle King County:Video: Information on face covering directive for Deaf, Hard of Hearing and DeafBlind community members (ASL video)Factsheet: Tips for Using Face Coverings and Communicating for Deaf, Hard of Hearing, and Deafblind Community Members (PDF)  Video: Face Masks & Hearing Loss (ASL video) The Center for Hearing and Communication has additional resources for wearing cloth face coverings for those who are deaf, hard of hearing, wear cochlear implants, or glasses are available.Guidance For Businesses & EmployersStarting June 8, all employees are required to wear a cloth facial covering unless they work completely alone or the job has no in-person interaction.Employers must provide cloth facial coverings to employees, unless a higher level of protection is required by their job duties. Employees may choose to wear their own facial covering at work, but it must meet the minimum level of protection based on their exposure risk. The minimum level of protection required for workers, based on exposure risk, can be found in this chart from L&I. Additional guidance from L&I about when employees should use cloth face coverings and when they are required to use respirators can be found in this publication.Businesses in Whatcom County are mandated to require customers, clients, and visitors to use face coverings. You can find signs to post at your business or place of employment in the upper right side of this page. The order does not require a customer to provide documentation or a reason if they are unable to wear a face covering. Businesses are encouraged to offer some kind of accommodation for these customers such as curbside pickup, delivery, or a scheduled appointment when physical distancing can be ensured. More information can be found in the overview of face covering requirements.EnforcementPeople are urged to comply with this State Health Order because it is an effective way to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Members of the public are required by law to comply with this order. Noncompliance with this order may be subject to criminal penalties pursuant to RCW 43.70.130(7), RCW 70.05.120(4), and WAC 246-100-070(3).If you see an individual who is not wearing a face covering, practice compassion, and remember that some people have conditions or circumstances that would make wearing a cloth face covering difficult or dangerous. Just wear your face covering, stay six feet away, and wash your hands often.  Businesses not following this order can be reported using the state’s online complaint form. Compliance will be monitored by the Washington State Department of Labor & Industries as a safety and health violation. A violation could carry a penalty of nearly $10,000 or more.Please do not call 911 to report non-compliance with this order. Only call 911 in an emergency.



Scraping from http://whatcomcounty.us/3374/Resources-for-Businesses-Organizations



Resources for Businesses and Community Organizations		
Page updated July 16, 2020 at 1:10 pm  I am looking for:Safe Start reopening guidance   Sector-specific guidanceWhat to do if a worker tests positive or is sickEconomic support for COVID-19               On May 4, Governor Inlsee signed an order to re-open Washington State’s economy under the state’s “Safe Start” plan. Safe Start Reopening GuidanceA lot of information exists to help businesses reopen, so we’ve created a single place to connect you to the best resources we’ve found to guide you through reopening. Check back soon for more tips and tools from the COVID Employer Support Task Force. Tips and Tools for Implementing COVID-19 Guidance (PDF).COVID-19 Reopening Guidance for Businesses and Workers: find current guidelines and requirements for each business sector from the state’s coronavirus website.Rebound and Recovery Toolkit: From the Association of Washington Businesses, find Safe Start Plan templates, signage, and other resources.Masks and Face Covering Guidance from Washington State Department of Health.Overview of COVID-19 Statewide Face Covering Requirements.Additional ResourcesWashington State ResourcesSafe Start Webpage: general information about Washington’s Safe Start phased approachResources and Recommendations (Washington State Department of Health (DOH)): safety and health guidance and resources.Washington State Department of Labor and Industries (L&I) COVID-19 outbreak resources, General COVID-19 work place requirements, and their COVID-19 prevention summary.National ResourcesCenters for Disease Control and Prevention: updated strategies and recommendations for employers responding to COVID-19, including cleaning and disinfection, a Resuming Business Toolkit and interim guidance for businesses and employers responding to COVID-19. U.S. Department of Labor (OSHA): information on how to protect workers from potential exposures, according to their exposure risk. Information on interim guidance and other resources for preventing exposure to and infection with COVID-19.If you have general inquiries or need assistance with your safe start plans, please contact the Health Department:By email:  covid@co.whatcom.wa.usDuring business hours:  360-778-6100Information on what to do if you have an ill worker can be found on this page and in this FAQ.Sector-specific GuidanceChild Care and SchoolsChecklist for child care administratorsGuidelines for Childcare Providers & Early LearningFaith CommunityEngaging Safely with Your Religious Community during the COVID-19 outbreakFAQs for Faith-Based CommunitiesGuidance for Drive-In Religious ServicesWhat to do if a worker is sick or tests positive for COVID-19Our FAQ document outlines what to do when a worker shows signs of COVID-19 or tests positive. If you have a worker who is ill and has symptoms, or a confirmed case of COVID-19, you must contact our Business Response Team (BRT):By email: health-BRT@co.whatcom.wa.us During business hours:  (360) 778-6100After hours: (360) 715-2588General inquiries and assistance with Safe Start plans should not be sent to the BRT. For general question and inquiries please contact the Health Department:By email:  covid@co.whatcom.wa.usDuring business hours:  360-778-6100Please remember that employees or volunteers who are sick should immediately be sent home and should not come to work while they are sick. 



Scraping from https://www.whatcomcounty.us/3369/Individuals-Families-Households#highrisk



Individuals, Families & Households		
Last updated: 2:30 p.m. Sunday, June 28, 2020.This is the latest guidance for individuals, families and households to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in Whatcom County.Washington’s ‘Safe Start’ plan to reopening Guidance for people at higher risk for severe COVID-19 illnessGuidance for individuals to prevent COVID-19 infectionAssessing your risk  What to do if you are sick or have been exposedVisit Whatcom Unified Command’s website for information on childcare and schools and additional resources for individuals and families. FAQsInformation and Recommendations May ChangeInformation continues to change frequently.  Check this website and our Facebook page often.  Sign up to receive Public Health News updates. Create a profile and select Health – Public Health News under the News Flash section with the option to receive email or text message updates.Washington’s Safe Start Plan to ReopeningOn May 29, Governor Inslee announced that the Stay Home, Stay Healthy order would be replaced with a Safe Start, Stay Healthy plan for county-by-county phased reopening.  Under this new plan, Whatcom County was approved to enter Phase 2 on June 5. Reopening is a dialing back of restrictions that gives individuals and businesses time to adjust and make sure we can all stay safe. For more information on what moving into Phase 2 means, read our June 5 news flash.Guidance for People at Higher Risk for Severe COVID-19 IllnessThose who are at higher risk for severe COVID-19 illness should take extra precautions to prevent exposure to the virus.The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) define people at higher risk as:People aged 65 years and olderPeople who live in a nursing home or long-term care facilityPeople with chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthmaPeople who have serious heart conditionsPeople who have weakened immune systems, including those who have undergone cancer treatmentPeople of any age with severe obesity (body mass index [BMI] >40)People with certain underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled, such as those with diabetes, renal failure, or liver diseasePeople who are pregnant should be monitored since they are known to be at risk with severe viral illness; however, data on COVID-19 has not shown increased riskDetailed guidance for people at higher risk is available from the Washington State Department of Health and the Centers for Disease Control. Caregivers of children with underlying health conditions should consult with healthcare providers about whether their children should stay home. Anyone who has questions about whether their condition puts them at risk for severe illness resulting from novel coronavirus should consult with their healthcare providers.Guidance for Individuals to Prevent COVID-19 InfectionPersonal prevention habits are effective for preventing COVID-19 infection.  These are important action steps everyone should take to protect their health. Additionally, for other community-wide actions to be most effective, people must continue to practice these habits.Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.Avoid close contact with others. Try to maintain a distance of at least six feet.Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue in the trash and wash your hands.Clean and disinfect objects and surfaces.If you are sick, contact your healthcare provider before visiting their office.Wear a mask or cloth face covering in public spaces. Starting June 26, everyone in Washington is required to wear a cloth face covering in public when it is not possible to stay at least least six feet away from others. Visit our masks and face coverings page to learn more.If you have a caregiver, they should also take special precautions. Information for Families Caring for Loved Ones is available from the Washington State Department of Health’s Health Education page.Follow the Safe Start guidelines to limit your exposure as we slowly reopen.Assessing Your RiskEach of us assess risks differently. When it comes to COVID-19, the risks you take affect you personally, and they also affect your community. Each decision you make about what activities to participate requires thinking through risk factors.  Read our June 25 news flash, How safe is it? A guide to COVID-19 risk, for guidance on assessing your risk. What to Do if You Are Sick or Have Been Exposed See our Frequently Asked Questions page for information on what to do if you are sick with COVID-19 or think you may have been exposed to the virus. 



Scraping from http://whatcomcounty.us/3388/COVID-19-Testing



COVID-19 Testing		
Page updated: Tuesday July 14, 2020 at 2:25 pm Drive-Through Testing Pilot Project (July 17 and 18)Free drive-through testing will be available Friday and Saturday, July 17 and 18 from 9:30 am to 3:30 pm. Where is the testing site?At the Civic Field Stadium parking lot in Bellingham. To be tested, enter the Civic Athletic Complex on Puget Street via Fraser St. You will be instructed where to drive, and should follow all instructions at the site to ensure the safety of workers, volunteers, and others seeking testing. Please note that lines may be long, that there are no public restrooms available on site, and that people are asked to remain in their vehicles while waiting.Who can get tested?Anyone can get tested for COVID-19 at the drive-through site. The pilot site is prepared to collect specimens to test from about 250-300 people per day.Do I need to make an appointment?No, during this pilot phase we will not be scheduling appointments for testing. What does testing cost?Nothing. Insurance companies are required to waive co-pays and deductibles for anyone being tested for COVID-19.  For people without insurance, costs will be covered by a Health Resources and Services Administration program. Additional information about insurance coverage and testing costs are available on our FAQs page.What should I bring?Bring personal identification and your insurance card, if you have them. Even if you do not have an ID card or insurance, you can still be tested. Personal information is collected only for the purpose of communicating with individuals about their test results. Please do not bring your pets, as they may be disruptive during the sample collection.When will I get results?Tests will be processed by Northwest Laboratory and results will be shared with individuals within 72 hours, with priority on notifying individuals who have tested positive. You will be notified of positive results by phone, and those with negative results will be notified with a text message. Please let the person checking you in at the testing site know if your phone cannot receive text messages.Please do not call the health department or Northwest Labs to request test results. We will let you know as soon as results are available.Will there be more drive-through testing available?Following the two days of testing, WCHD and WUC will assess the testing process and refine it with additional planning for an ongoing low-barrier, drive-through testing site. Getting tested through your healthcare providerTo schedule an appointment for testing, you may contact your healthcare provider and make an appointment. The healthcare provider will then either collect a specimen from you or issue a referral for a testing center, where you can make an appointment.Who can get tested?Anyone can get tested. However, healthcare providers are focusing on people with symptoms of COVID-19 and their contacts. Even if you have mild symptoms, please get tested.Should I get tested?If you have COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. Even if your symptoms are mild, getting a test can be informative and help you know if you are currently contagious. If you have been in close contact with a confirmed case, you should get tested. How do I get a test from my healthcare provider?Talk to your provider, who will help you determine if you need to be tested. If you do not have a regular healthcare provider, work with your insurance company to find one. Visit our FAQs page for information about what to do if you don’t have insurance.If you can’t get scheduled for testing quickly or are not eligible for insurance, please call the Health Department at 360-778-6100 between 8:30 and 4:30 Monday through Friday for assistance.What does testing cost?Insurance companies are required to waive co-pays and deductibles for anyone requiring testing for COVID-19.  Additional information insurance coverage and testing costs are available on our FAQs page.Testing locationsTesting in Whatcom County is currently being performed at several locations. Northwest Laboratory at 3548 Meridian Street, Suite 101 in Bellingham offers drive-through testing for patients who have referrals and have made appointments. If you have a physician’s referral, call 360-527-4592 to schedule an appointment. Visit their website for more information.These clinics provide testing assistance:Care Medical GroupFor more information call 360-734-4300 or visit their website.Family Care NetworkFor more information on COVID-19 services and clinic locations visit their website.Lummi Tribal ClinicFor more information call 360-384-0464.Nooksack Tribal ClinicFor more information call 360-966-2106 or visit their website.PeaceHealth Medical GroupFor more information call 360-738-2200 or visit their website.Sea Mar Community Health CentersFor more information call 360-671-3225 or visit their website.Western Washington’s Student Health CenterFor more information call 360-650-3400 or visit their website.If you are a healthcare provider or provide laboratory services and would like your organization added to this website, please contact the Whatcom County Health Department.This page is updated as new information on testing in Whatcom County becomes available.
