


Scraping from https://www.yakimacounty.us/2323/COVID-19



COVID-19		
SAFE START WASHINGTONWashington’s Phased Approach to Opening BusinessesWashington State counties are operating under the “Safe Start” approach  health officials must take for resuming recreational, social and business activities. Yakima County is in Modified Phase 1For more detailed information on the the phased in approach please click on Safe Start Yakima County.



Scraping from https://www.yakimacounty.us/2343/Workplaces



Workplaces 		
Gov. Inslee Announces the "Stay Home, Stay Healthy" order- Essential Business ( En Español) Washington State Coronavirus Response (COVID-19)- What’s Open and Closed (En Español) Inslee provides construction guidance, signs proclamations for Unemployment Insurance rules, and healthcare payments. 



Scraping from https://www.yakimacounty.us/2337/Schools



General Information for Schools & Child Care		
This page provides resources and materials for schools and child cares related to COVID-19. Please use these materials and continue to turn to reliable sources of information.Inslee extends school closures for the rest of the 2019-20 school yearGov. Jay Inslee and Superintendent of Public Instruction Chris Reykdal  announced on April 6th  the extension of school closures for the remainder of the 2019-2020 school year. The order keeps both public and private schools closed in accordance with the governor’s original order on March 13.The governor’s proclamation prohibits in-person instruction through June 19, with exceptions for students with disabilities and English language learners for whom distance learning would present challenges. Facilities remain accessible for limited use, including providing child care and packing take-home meals for students’ families to pick up. All activities must follow Department of Health social distancing guidelines.School Food Distribution Find your school district on the EDS 105 website to learn about food distribution in your district. (español)WA Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction DOH School Resources and Recommendations CDC- Resources for k-12 and Childcare ProgramsCDC- Resources for Institutes of Higher Education DOH Information for Administrators and EmployeesDOH-Parent & Care Taker Resources and Recommendations CDC- When and How To Wash Your HandsHandouts and Posters



Scraping from https://www.yakimacounty.us/2342/High-Risk-Individuals



Recommendations for High Risk Individuals 		
The Yakima Health District, Washington State Department of Health, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  have developed guidance to provide up to date resources to in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. While the situation is evolving, at this time we believe that older patients and those with chronic medical conditions may be at higher risk for severe illness from COVID-19. Monitor public health updates from:Local Public Health DepartmentWashington State Department of HealthCenters for Disease Control and Prevention Situation SummaryGuidance for Persons who are at Higher Risk for Serious Illness- DOHCDC- High Risk Individuals Information on COVID-19 and Pregnant Women and Children



Scraping from https://www.yakimacounty.us/2336/Community



Community Information and Resources		
The Yakima Health District, Washington State Department of Health, and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are closely monitoring the coronavirus disease (COVID-19).Its important we all do our  part to slow the spread of the coronavirus in our community. Even if you are young, or otherwise healthy, you are at risk and your activities can increase the risk for others. It is critical that you do your part to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Avoid social gatherings in groups of more than 10 people.Avoid travel, shopping trips and social visits.Do not visit nursing homes or retirement or long-term care facilities. YAKIMA TOGETHERYakima Health District’s recently launched dual-language online toolkit and website created for community organizations. The toolkit includes flyers, social media images, recommended posts, talking points, and a video to share. En Español Resources and Guidance:DOH-Community Resources & RecommendationsOutbreak Preparedness Factsheet CDC-Situation Summary & UpdatesCDC-Resources for Home CDC- Community Events & GatheringsDOH- Guidance for Public Gatherings & events CDC- Coronavirus and Travel in the U.S.Financial Resources for People Impacted by COVID-19 WA State Department of Financial InstitutionsYakima Health District- Handouts & Print ResourcesCDC- Hand Washing Video Social Distancing 101 -(español)  
