


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/faqs


Basics
Why is there a discrepancy in numbers from State to County?
Updated:
May 12, 2020
In an effort to publish the most up to date information on local numbers, the Black Hawk County Department of Health reports COVID-19 cases as it's available. The Black Hawk County Department of Health reported cases include positive PCR tests, positive serology tests, and symptomatic close contacts of cases. As a result, the county’s data may differ from the state’s reported cases. 
‍
PCR test
: A positive PCR test indicates an ongoing infection. 
‍
Serology test
: A serology test is used to identify recent or past infections. 
Symptomatic close contact
: A person that is exhibiting symptoms of COVID-19 and is a close contact to a person that tested positive for COVID-19. Close contacts are identified by the health department through case investigations. 
  
‍
‍
Who should self isolate?
Updated:
May 27, 2020
Iowans should stay at home and isolate themselves from other people and animals in the home in the following situations. Isolation should be in place for 14 days after the last exposure.
Taken a cruise anywhere in the world.
Traveled outside of the United States.
 Live with someone who has symptoms of COVID-19 (fever or respiratory symptoms) or has tested positive for COVID-19.
People in self isolation should:
Stay home and do not go to school, public areas or attend gatherings.
Do not use public transportation, ride sharing or taxis.
Postpone all travel.
Wash your hands often and practice good hygiene.
Postpone all non-essential medical appointments until you have completed your 14 days of self- isolation. If you have an essential medical appointment during this time, please work with your healthcare provider and local public health professionals as needed to help coordinate the visit.
Take your temperature twice a day. Watch for a fever, cough or difficulty breathing.
Family members or other persons who reside in your home may remain in your home, but you should stay in a specific room away from others in your home and use a separate bathroom (if available). As long as you remain healthy, the other persons in your home can go about their daily activities as normal (there is no restriction on their movement).
If you think you may need healthcare, call first. Your provider can assess whether you need to be seen in the office or if you can recover at home.
What should I do if I am ill?
Updated:
March 18, 2020
It is important that if you are ill with fever or respiratory symptoms (cough or difficulty breathing) that you remain home and isolate from others in the home. You should remain isolated at home until:
You have had no fever for at least 72 hours (that is three full days of no fever without the use of medicine that reduces fevers) 
AND
other symptoms have improved (for example, when your cough or shortness of breath have improved) 
AND
at least 10 days have passed since your symptoms first appeared.
These are recommendations that all ill Iowans should follow regardless of whether or not they have been tested for COVID-19. 
Approximately 80% of Iowans infected with COVID-19, will experience only a mild to moderate illness. Most mildly ill Iowans do not need to go to their healthcare provider or be tested to confirm they have COVID-19. Contact your health care provider by phone for guidance about care for your symptoms. 
Patients who have severe symptoms, such as difficulty breathing, should seek care immediately, and should call their health care provider before going in to be seen. Older patients and individuals who have underlying medical conditions or are immunocompromised should contact their health care provider early, even for mild illnesses.
What is COVID-19 (coronavirus)?
Updated:
March 15, 2020
COVID-19 is a respiratory disease caused by a novel (new) coronavirus that was first detected in China and has now been detected internationally, including the United States, and Iowa
How does COVID-19 spread?
Updated:
March 15, 2020
From person-to-person by respiratory droplets, similar to seasonal flu. Respiratory droplets are droplets produced when someone coughs or sneezes that can contain the virus. The virus spreads when droplets get into a person's mouth, nose, or eyes. People are considered the most contagious when they are experiencing symptoms.
How to Protect Yourself
How can I protect myself and my loved ones against COVID-19?
Updated:
March 15, 2020 2:20 PM
The 3 C's:
Clean: 
Clean your hands with soap and water, or use a hand sanitizing gel when water is not available.
Cover:
 Cover your coughs and sneezes with your sleeve or elbow.
Contain:
 Contain germs by staying home with ill. Don't go to school, work, shopping, or other outside activities while you are sick. 
How can I prepare myself and my family?
Updated:
March 16, 2020 7:50 PM
Residents should prepare for the potential of COVID-19 in the same way they prepare for severe weather or other events that could disrupt their normal routine. This includes making a plan and discussing it with your family. Some questions to consider when planning are: What would you do if you could not go to work or school because of illness? What if your day care provider was ill? How would you get groceries if you were ill? 
Should I wear a facemask?
Updated:
April 6, 2020 2:30 PM
If you are sick:
 You should not leave you home, if you are even mildly ill, except to seek medical care, and should wear a facemask when you are around other people (e.g., sharing a room or vehicle) and before you enter a healthcare provider’s office. 
If you are NOT sick: 
Recent studies have indicated that some people with coronavirus don’t have any symptoms, and that even those who later develop symptoms can pass the virus to others before showing symptoms. Because of this new evidence, wearing cloth face coverings in public places where social distancing measures are difficult (like grocery stores and pharmacies) can be done to help further slow the spread of COVID-19. Wearing a cloth face covering in public can help protect others, it does not protect the wearer from being exposed. Cloth face coverings can be quickly and inexpensively made from an old t-shirt, a bandana, hand towel or scarf, and rubber bands. You should avoid touching or adjusting your cloth face mask while in public, clean your hands immediately if you do have to touch it, and launder the mask after each use and when it is visibly soiled. Wearing a cloth face covering is not a substitution for following social distancing guidelines.
What should I do if I have traveled internationally?
Updated:
March 16, 2020 7:13 PM
If you have traveled internationally you should self-isolate for 14 days after returning. If during those 14 days you develop symptoms (fever, cough, and difficulty breathing) you should contact your health care provider before going in to be seen, and tell them about your travel history. The CDC travel advisories provide to most current information on areas with ongoing spread, and precautions for travelers. 
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/index.html 
What should I do if I traveled or plan to travel within the US?
Updated:
May 12, 2020 4:05 PM
COVID-19 virus is circulating across the United States. While there is no longer a recommendation to self-isolate for 14 days after returning home from travel outside of Iowa and within the United States (as long as the traveler remains well and has not been identified as a close contact of an ill individual), travelers should continue to clean your hands often, avoid close contact with others, keep 6 feet of physical distance from others, wear a cloth face covering in public, and cover coughs and sneezes.
‍
Social Distancing & Gatherings
What is Community Spread?
Updated:
March 16, 2020 9:15 AM
Community Spread: 
Occurs where individuals have been infected with the virus in an area and cannot specifically identify the source of the infection, or do not know how or where they became infected (e.g. cannot tie the illness to a specific event, like a cruise).
What is social distancing and what should I be doing?
Updated:
March 16, 2020 8:01 PM
Social distancing means avoiding  large gatherings or other congregate settings, and maintaining distance (6ft) from others when possible. Personal social distancing measures include avoiding large gatherings or limiting the number of attendees, or distance or remote work, or online learning. 
Individuals 60 years old or older with underlying conditions should stay home and avoid gatherings or other situations of potential exposures, including travel to affected areas. 
Reduce activities (group congregation, religious services, etc.), especially for organizations with individuals with underlying health conditions.
Encourage staff to telework when feasible, particularly individuals at increased risk of severe illness. Limit non-essential work travel and gatherings.
What are the current recommendations for cancellations and closures?
Updated:
May 27, 2020 12:00 PM
Governor Reynolds signed a new proclamation continuing the Public Health Disaster Emergency until June 25, 2020. The proclamation permits bars, wineries, breweries, distilleries, and social and fraternal clubs may reopen on May 28 with the same public health measures as restaurants in place. The proclamation also permits the reopening on June 1 of additional establishments, including outdoor performance venues, casinos, bowling alleys, amusement parks, skating rinks, skate parks, outdoor playgrounds.  The proclamation again permits social, community, recreational, leisure, and sporting gatherings and events of more than 10 people if public health measures are implemented, including limiting attendance to 50% of the venue capacity and maintaining six feet of distance between those attending. This also allows practices, games, and competitions for youth and adult baseball, softball, and individual sports such as running, biking, swimming, tennis, and golf to resume with appropriate public health measures in place.                     
The full proclamation is 
online in its entirety
 and substantive information can be found below:
PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE IOWANS
SECTION ONE
.  I continue to strongly encourage all vulnerable Iowans, including those with preexisting medical conditions and those older than 65, in all counties of the state to continue to limit their activities outside of their home, including their visits to businesses and other establishments and their participation in gatherings of any size and any purpose. And I encourage all Iowans to limit their in-person interactions with vulnerable Iowans and to exercise particular care and caution when engaging in any necessary interactions.
REOPENING OF BUSINESSES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION TWO
.  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144 (3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, I hereby order that effective at 12:01 a.m. on May 28, 2020 and until 11:59 p.m. on June 17, 2020:
A.   
Restaurants and bars
: A restaurant or bar, including a wedding reception venue, winery, brewery, distillery, country club, or other social or fraternal club, may reopen or remain open to serve food and beverages on its premises, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The establishment must limit the number of customers present at indoor or outdoor spaces to 50% of its normal operating seating capacity to ensure adequate spacing of groups. An establishment that ordinarily has a larger operating capacity for patrons standing is not prohibited from adding additional tables and chairs, provided that doing so complies with all other provisions of this Proclamation and any other applicable law.
(2)  Groups limited: The establishment must limit party size seated together to no more than ten people. 
(3)  Social distancing: The establishment must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual dining or drinking alone. Seating at booths closer than six feet may satisfy this requirement if the booths are separated by a barrier of a sufficient height to fully separate seated customers. All patrons must have a seat at a table or bar, and an establishment must limit patrons from congregating together closer than six feet.
(4)  Self-service prohibited:  The establishment must not have any self-service of food, including buffets or salad bars.
(5)  Live performances: An establishment may have live music performances, provided that any performer remains at least six feet away from patrons and other performers, and the establishment does not permit patrons from congregating together closer than six feet.
(6)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The restaurant shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each restaurant to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals and the Iowa Department of Public Health.
B. 
Fitness centers
: A fitness center, health club, health spa, or gym may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The establishment must limit the number of customers present to 50% of its maximum legal occupancy capacity.
(2)  Social distancing: The establishment must ensure that all equipment, such as treadmills, bikes, weight machines, benches, and power racks, are spaced at least six feet apart or take other appropriate measures to ensure that more closely spaced equipment is not used.
(3)  Group activities: Any group activities or classes must be limited to a number of people that permits maintaining a distance of six feet apart at all times.
(4)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The establishment shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
C.   
Malls
: An enclosed mall may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The mall must limit the number of customers present to 50% of its maximum legal occupancy capacity.
(2)  Common seating areas: All common seating areas, such as food courts, shall remain closed. Restaurants in food courts may operate on a carry-out basis.
(3)  Play areas: Any play area or playground must remain closed.
(4)  Social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The mall shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each mall to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
D.   Other retail establishments: A retail establishment that was previously ordered to be closed statewide and then only in certain counties under section 5, paragraph I, of the Proclamation of Disaster Emergency issued on April 27, 2020 , may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that it limits the number of customers present to 50% of its maximum legal occupancy capacity and implements reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
E. 
Salons
: A salon, including any establishment providing the services of cosmetology, electrology, esthetics, nail technology, manicuring, and pedicuring, all as defined in Iowa Code § 157.1, may reopen, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The salon must limit the number of customers present to 50% of its maximum legal occupancy capacity.
(2)  Appointment only: The salon must operate on an appointment basis to ensure that the public is not gathering in a waiting area.
(3)  Social distancing: The salon must ensure that all customers are at least six feet apart when performing cosmetology practices.
(4)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The salon shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each salon to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
F. 
Barbershop
: A barbershop, as defined in Iowa Code § 158.1, may reopen, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The barbershop must limit the number of customers present to 50% of its maximum legal occupancy capacity.
(2)  Appointment only: The barbershop must operate on an appointment basis to ensure that the public is not gathering in a waiting area.
(3)  Social distancing: The barbershop must ensure that all customers are at least six feet apart when performing barbering services.
(4)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The barbershop shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each barbershop to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
G.   
Medical spas
: A medical spa, as defined in Iowa Admin Code § 653-13.8(1), may reopen or remain open to provide medical aesthetic services, but only if the medical spa complies with the requirements for performing outpatient procedures that utilize PPE in section 9, paragraph A, of this Proclamation.
H.   
Tanning facilities
: A tanning facility, as defined by Iowa Code § 136D.2(5), may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that the facility takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each facility to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
I. 
Massage therapy establishments
: An establishment where an individual is practicing massage therapy as defined by Iowa Code § 152C.1(3) may reopen, but only to the extent that the establishment takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
J. 
Tattoo establishments
: A tattoo establishment, as regulated by Iowa Code § 135.37, may reopen, but only to the extent that the establishment takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
K.   
Campgrounds
: Any public or private campground may reopen or remain open, provided that the campground implements reasonable measures under the circumstances of each campground to ensure social distancing, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
L. 
Race tracks
: A speedway or race track, including a track conducting horse or dog races, may reopen or continue its operations, provided that it does not permit any spectators to attend its events in person until June 1, 2020. Effective 12:01 a.m. on June 1, 2020, a speedway or race track may permit spectators to attend, provided that the establishment complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The establishment must limit the number of patrons present in any grandstands or other permanent seating to 50% of its normal operating capacity to ensure adequate spacing of groups.
(2)  Social distancing: The establishment must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone when seated.
(3)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The establishment shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food or beverage service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
M.  
Libraries
: A library may reopen or remain open provided that it limits the number of patrons present to 50% of its maximum legal occupancy capacity and implements reasonable measures under the circumstances of each library to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
N.   
Drive-in theaters
: A drive-in movie theater may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that the theater ensures that all cars are parked at least six feet apart and takes other reasonable measures under the circumstances of each theater to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
O.   
Movie Theaters
: Any theater at which motion pictures are shown may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that the theater complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The theater must limit the number of patrons present in any individual theater to 50% of its normal operating capacity to ensure adequate spacing of groups.
(2)  Social distancing: The theater must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone when seated in the theater.
(3)  Self-service prohibited:  The theater must not have any self-service of food.
(4)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The theater shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each theater to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
P. 
Museums, aquariums, and zoos
: A museums, aquarium, or zoo may reopen, but only to the extent that the establishment takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
Q.   
Swimming pools
: A swimming pool, as defined in Iowa Code § 135I.1 may reopen for the limited purpose of lap swimming and conducting swimming lessons (including life guard training), but only to the extent that the establishment operating the pool takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health. Except for these limited purposes, all swimming pools and spas, wading pools, water slides, wave pools, spray pads, and bath houses, as defined in Iowa Code § 135I.1, shall continue to be closed.
REOPENING OF BUSINESSES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
(June 1, 2020)
SECTION THREE
.  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144 (3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, I hereby order that effective at 12:01 a.m. on June 1, 2020 and until 11:59 p.m. on June 17, 2020:
A.   
Outdoor Performance Venues
: An outdoor theater or performance venue where live performances are held may open or reopen to patrons, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The establishment must limit the number of patrons present in any grandstands or other permanent seating to 50% of its normal operating capacity to ensure adequate spacing of groups.
(2)  Social distancing: The establishment must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone when seated.
(3)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The establishment shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food or beverage service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
Until June 1, 2020, all outdoor theaters and performance venues where live performances are held shall continue to be closed.
B. 
Casinos and gaming facilities
: A casino or other facility conducting pari-mutuel wagering or gaming operations may reopen, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The establishment must limit the number of patrons present on the gaming floor and waging area to 50% of its gaming or wagering positions as determined by the Racing and Gaming Commission.
(2)  Social distancing: The establishment must ensure that all wagering and gaming positions are spaced at least six feet apart or take other appropriate measures to ensure that more closely spaced positions are not used. Positions closer than six feet may satisfy this requirement if the positions are separated by a barrier of a sufficient height to fully separate patrons at each position.
(3)  Food and Beverage Service: The establishment shall comply with all the requirements of bars and restaurants in this Proclamation for any food and beverage service and shall not have any self-service of food, including buffets or salad bars.
(4)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The establishment shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food or beverage service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
Until June 1, 2020, all such facilities shall continue to be closed, except that a race track conducting pari-mutuel wagering may reopen provided that it does not permit any spectators to attend its events in person.
C.   
Amusements
: A bingo hall, bowling alley, pool hall, arcade, or amusement parks may reopen, but only to the extent that the establishment limits the number of customers present to 50% of its maximum legal occupancy capacity and takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health. Until June 1, 2020, all bingo halls, bowling alleys, pool halls, arcades, and amusement parks shall continue to be closed.
D.   
Skating rinks and skate parks
: An indoor or outdoor roller or ice skating rink or skate parks may reopen, but only to the extent that the establishment limits the number of customers present to 50% of its maximum legal occupancy capacity and takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health. Until June 1, 2020, all indoor or outdoor roller or ice skating rinks and skate parks shall continue to be closed.
E. 
Outdoor playgrounds
: An outdoor playground may reopen. Until June 1, 2020, all outdoor playgrounds shall continue to be closed.
EXTENSIONS OF CLOSURES AND ORDERS
SECTION FOUR
.  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144 (3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, I hereby extend the following orders until 11:59 p.m. on June 17, 2020:
A.   
Theaters
: All indoor theaters and other indoor performance venues at which live performances are held shall continue to be closed.
B. 
Senior citizen centers and adult daycare facilities
:  All facilities that conduct adult day services or other senior citizen centers shall continue to be closed.
C.   
Indoor playgrounds
: All indoor playgrounds or children’s play centers shall continue to be closed.  This order does not apply to playgrounds in private residences or childcare facilities.
MASS GATHERINGS
(Until May 31, 2020)
SECTION FIVE
.  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144 (3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, social, community, recreational, leisure, and sporting gatherings and events of more than 10 people shall continue to be prohibited at all locations and venues, including but not limited to parades, festivals, conventions, and fundraisers until 11:59 p.m. on May 31, 2020.
A.   Spiritual and religious gatherings are not prohibited by this section, but a church, synagogue, or other host of a spiritual or religious gathering shall implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each gathering to ensure social distancing of employees, volunteers, and other participants, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health. 
B. A gathering of people inside parked cars, trucks, or other enclosed motor vehicles shall not constitute a gathering of more than 10 people if no more than 10 people are inside each vehicle, all people remain inside the vehicle at all times.
C. Planned large gatherings and events must be canceled or postponed until after termination of this disaster.
MASS GATHERINGS
(Effective June 1, 2020)
SECTION SIX
.  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144 (3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, effective 12:01 a.m. on June 1, 2020, and continuing until 11:59 p.m. on June 17, 2020:
A.   A social, community, recreational, leisure, or sporting gathering or event, including but not limited to a parade, festival, convention, or fundraiser, of more than ten people may be held, but only if the gathering complies with all other relevant provisions in this Proclamation and the following requirements:
(1) Capacity limited: The gathering organizer must limit the number of participants present in any indoor venue to 50% of its normal operating capacity to ensure adequate spacing of groups. The gathering organizer must limit the number of participants present in any outdoor venue with grandstands or other permanent seating to 50% of its normal operating capacity and the number of participants in other outdoor settings to a number that permits the social distancing required by paragraph 2.
(2) Social distancing: The gathering organizer must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone.
(3) Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The gathering organizer shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each gathering to ensure social distancing of gathering participants, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
Any social, community, recreational, leisure, and sporting gatherings and events of more than 10 people that does not comply with these requirements shall continue to be prohibited at all locations and venues.
B. Non-school sporting and recreational events: Practices, games, and competitions for baseball, softball, and individual sports, such as running, biking, swimming, tennis, and golf, are not prohibited by this section even where athletes may have some contact within six feet, provided that the organizer of such activities and events implements reasonable measures under the circumstances of each gathering to ensure reasonable social distancing, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
C.   Spiritual and religious gatherings: Spiritual and religious gatherings, including any funerals or weddings, are not prohibited by this section. But a church, synagogue, or other host of a spiritual or religious gathering shall implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each gathering to ensure social distancing of employees, volunteers, and other participants, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
‍
Symptoms & Testing
What are the symptoms of COVID-19?
Updated:
March 15, 2020 12:09 PM
Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure, with an average of 4-5 days:
Fever
Cough
Shortness of breath
CALL YOUR DOCTOR: If you think you have been exposed to COVID-19 and develop a fever and symptoms, such as cough or difficulty breathing, call your healthcare provider for medical advice.
Who should be tested?
Updated:
March 16, 2020 7:41 PM
People who are a close contact to a confirmed case of COVID-19, or traveled to or live in an area of ongoing community spread of COVID-19, and develop symptoms of COVID-19 should call their health care provider to determine whether or not they should be tested. People who are hospitalized with fever and respiratory failure and no alternate cause, or people with a chronic medical condition who are hospitalized with fever and respiratory symptoms should also be tested.
Mildly ill patients are encouraged to stay home and contact their health care provider by phone for guidance about care for their symptoms.
Patients who have severe symptoms, such as difficulty breathing, should seek care immediately.
Older patients and individuals who have underlying medical conditions or are immunocompromised should contact their health care provider early, even for mild illnesses.
Who decides who gets tested?
Updated:
March 16, 2020 7:44 PM
Health care providers, with guidance from CDC and public health, will determine who should be tested and prioritize patients for testing.
Who pays for testing?
Updated:
March 16, 2020 7:45 PM
Federal resources are being announced daily to assist all Americans and the health care systems with testing.
You can find more information about federal resources as well as Medicare and Medicaid coverage here: 
https://www.medicaid.gov/state-resource-center/disaster-response-toolkit/covid19/index.html
In Iowa, tests that are sent to SHL are provided at no cost and considered a test of public health significance. Private lab testing may incur a fee. Many health insurance companies are already waiving fees for the testing if a health care provider determines that a test is needed. Check your insurance provider’s webpage or hotline for your individual coverage.
Taking Care of Sick People
What should I do if I am ill with COVID-19?
Updated:
March 16, 2020 8:32 PM
If you are ill with COVID-19 you should stay home except to get medical care, prohibit any visitors, and separate yourself from family members and common areas as much as possible. If you need to be around other people you should wear a face mask, and you should avoid sharing household items. Monitor your symptoms, and if they start to get worse call your doctor before going in to be seen.
How can other household members be protected?
Updated:
March 15, 2020 3:20 PM
Sick people should not care for infants or other people at high risk for complications of COVID-19.
The sick person should stay in a room separate from family members and away from the common areas of the house. For example, a spare bedroom with its own bathroom, if possible. Keep the bedroom door closed.
If possible, sick persons should use a separate bathroom. This bathroom should be cleaned daily with regular household disinfectant.
Other household members, especially those at high risk for complications of COVID-19, should not come within six feet of the person who is ill. 
Have the sick person wear a facemask, if available and tolerable, if they need to be in a common area of the house near other persons. 
All persons in the household should clean their hands with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand rub frequently, including after every contact with the sick person or the person’s room or bathroom. 
Use paper towels for drying hands after hand washing, or have separate cloth towels for each person in the household. For example, have different colored towels for each person. 
Maintaining good ventilation in common areas of the house (e.g., keeping windows open in restrooms, kitchen, keep vent going in bathroom, etc.). 


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts





Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/the-office-of-latino-affairs-embarc-and-the-iowa-spanish-helpline-task-force-announce-the-launch-of-the-iowa-spanish-helpline-linea-de-ayuda-en-iowa


The Office of Latino Affairs, EMBARC and The Iowa Spanish Helpline Task Force Announce the Launch of the Iowa Spanish Helpline (Línea de Ayuda en Iowa)
June 15, 2020

Please refer to the information below from the Iowa Department of Human Rights about the launch of the Iowa Spanish Helpline. To access the helpline please click on this 
link
 or call the helpline. From 8 am-8 pm the number is: 
515-344-3936.
 From 8 pm-8 am (overnight assistance) the number is
: 319- 214-0113.
Por favorconsulte la información del Departamento de Derechos Humanosde Iowa sobre el lanzamiento de la línea de ayuda en español de Iowa. Para acceder a la línea de ayuda, haga clic en este enlace o llame a la línea de ayuda. De 8 de la mañana a 8 de la noche al número 
515-344-3936
. Línea de ayuda de noche, 8 de la noche a 8 de la mañana llame al 
319-214-0113
.
‍
The Office of Latino Affairs, EMBARC and The Iowa Spanish Helpline Task Force Announce the Launch of the Iowa Spanish Helpline (Línea de Ayuda en Iowa)
The Office of Latino Affairs, the Iowa Spanish Helpline Task Force (Directors from Latino Centers and other Latino Leaders across Iowa) and EMBARC, Iowa's first refugee-led social service organization, released the statewide Iowa Spanish Helpline. 
EMBARC understands the need for culturally-relevant COVID-19-related information and resources for Latinx communities across Iowa to help support themselves, their loved ones and Iowa, as many of the essential workers in Iowa identify as Latinx. The Task Force leading this initiative recognizes the need to serve the most vulnerable Latinxs in Iowa who face additional challenges associated with COVID-19, such as lack of access to life-saving information, support and connections to resources.
The IowacSpanish HelpLine provides more than resources to the callers- it connects clients to virtual case management services throughout the COVID-19 pandemic response and recovery, such as:
 
Navigating the 
Test Iowa website
 including completing assessments for testing eligibility
 
Filling out forms for unemployment, small business relief funds, and public benefits
 
Providing educational assistance for students and parents including filling out the FAFSA application, finding and applying for post secondary education and helping to find scholarships
 
Facilitating advocacy in navigating the healthcare system and any other systems as necessary
 
Accessing local and state assistance and finding other sources for clients who cannot access local and state assistance
 
Finding employment and other financial resources
 
Reading important mail and forms in English that the client would not otherwise be able to access
 
Providing up-to-date information regarding questions and concerns related to COVID-19 in Iowa
 
Locating an appropriate provider in their area for clients who do not have a medical home or connecting with their current     medical home regarding medical concerns or questions
 
Connecting with their local Latino-led organization for support, connection and advocacy
 
And more.
The line will be open Monday-Saturday from 8:00 am to 8:00 pm.
"As the Latinx population increases in Iowa, we seek to empower our communities” 
Gisella Aitken-Shadle.
“In the face of adversity with this global pandemic, we need to make sure we stand united as Latino-Iowans” 
Louis Moreno, Iowa Commission of Latino Affairs.
The Spanish Help Line Task Force is composed of members from the following organizations:
·         Centro Latino of Iowa,Council Bluffs
·         Diversity Service Center of Iowa,Muscatine
·         Latino Empowerment And Development(L.E.A.D.), Dubuque
·         Hispanics United for Perry
·         Iowa Commission of Latino Affairs
·         Iowa Latinos Can Coalition
·         La Luz Centro Cultural,Hampton
·         Ottumwa LULAC
·         Storm Lake LULAC
·         Young Parents Network, Cedar Rapids
For more information, visit the 
Linea de Ayuda webpage
.  
Línea de Ayuda para Latinos en Iowa
La Oficina de Asuntos Latinos, EMBARC y la Coalición de la Linea de Ayuda anuncian el lanzamiento de la Línea de Ayuda en Iowa.
La Oficinade Asuntos Latinos, la Coalición de la Línea de Ayuda de Iowa (Directores de Centros Latinos y otros Líderes Latinos en todo Iowa) y EMBARC, la primera organización de servicios sociales dirigida por refugiados de Iowa, han lanzado la Línea de Ayuda de Iowa para servir a Latinos en todo el estado.
EMBARC comprende la necesidad de información y recursos relacionados con COVID-19 culturalmente relevantes para las comunidades latinas en todo Iowa para ayudar a mantenerse a sí mismos, a sus seres queridos y a Iowa, ya que muchos de los trabajadores esenciales en Iowa se identifican como latinos. La Coalicion de La Linea de Ayuda que lidera esta iniciativa reconoce la necesidad de atender alos latinos más vulnerables en Iowa que enfrentan desafíos adicionales asociados con COVID-19, como la falta de acceso a información que salva vidas, apoyo y conexiones a recursos.
·        Lalínea de ayuda de Iowa proporciona más que recursos a las personas que llaman: conecta a los clientes con servicios virtuales de administración de casos          através de la respuesta y recuperación ante una pandemia de COVID-19, tales como:
·        Navegarpor el sitio web de 
TestIowa
 incluyendocompletar evaluaciones para la elegibilidad de pruebas
·        Llenar formularios de desempleo, fondos de ayuda para pequeñas empresas y beneficios públicos
·        Brindarasistencia educativa para estudiantes y padres, incluyendo completar la solicitud FAFSA, encontrar y solicitar educación postsecundaria y ayudar a          encontrar becas
·        Facilitarla promoción en la navegación del sistema de salud y cualquier otro sistema según sea necesario.
·        Accedera asistencia local y estatal y encontrar otras fuentes para clientes que no pueden acceder a asistencia local y estatal
·        Encontrarempleo y otros recursos financieros
·        Lectura de correos y formularios importantes en inglés a los que el cliente no podría acceder
·        Proporcionar información actualizada sobre preguntas y preocupaciones relacionadas con COVID-19 en Iowa
·        Localizarun proveedor apropiado en su área para clientes que no tienen un hogar médico oconectarse con su hogar médico actual con respecto a inquietudes o          preguntas médicas
·        Conectandocon su organización local liderada por latinos para apoyo, conexión y defensa
·        Y más.
La líneaestará abierta de lunes a sábado de 8:00 a.m. a 8:00 p.m; 
515-344-3936.
Línea de ayuda de noche, 8 de la noche a 8 de la mañana llame al 
319-214-0113
.
"Amedida que aumenta la población de latinx en Iowa, buscamos empoderar anuestras comunidades" Gisella Aitken-Shadle.
"Antela adversidad con esta pandemia global, debemos asegurarnos de estar unidoscomo latinos-iowanos" Louis Moreno, Comisión de Asuntos Latinos de Iowa.
LaCoalicion de La Linea de Ayuda l está compuesta por miembros de las siguientesorganizaciones:
·         Centro Latino of Iowa,Council Bluffs
·         Diversity Service Center of Iowa,Muscatine
·         Latino Empowerment And Development(L.E.A.D.), Dubuque
·         Hispanics United for Perry
·         Iowa Commission of Latino Affairs
·         Iowa Latinos Can Coalition
·         La Luz Centro Cultural,Hampton
·         Ottumwa LULAC
·         Storm Lake LULAC
·         Young Parents Network, Cedar Rapids
 
 
Para obtener más información, visite la página 
web de Linea de Ayuda


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/gov-reynolds-signs-new-proclamation-continuing-the-state-public-health-emergency-declaration-6


Gov. Reynolds signs new proclamation continuing the State Public Health Emergency Declaration
June 10, 2020

Gov. Reynolds signs new proclamation continuing the State Public Health Emergency Declaration
Wed, 06/10/2020 - 12:45
Today, Governor Reynolds signed a new proclamation continuing the Public Health Disaster Emergency. The proclamation, effective at 8:00 a.m. on Friday, June 12, 2020, continues to ease restrictions on businesses and extends other public measures until Thursday, June 25, 2020.  It still encourages all vulnerable Iowans, in all counties, to continue to limit their activities outside of the home.  
The 
full proclamation is online in its entirety 
and substantive information can be found below: 
WHEREAS, the World Health Organization has reported an outbreak of thousands of cases of Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) in multiple countries, causing illness and deaths; and
WHEREAS, on January 31, 2020, the United States Department of Health and Human Services declared a national public health emergency; and
WHEREAS, on March 9, 2020, a Proclamation of Disaster Emergency was issued to coordinate the State of Iowa’s response to this outbreak and such disaster continues to exist; and
WHEREAS, on March 11, 2020 the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a global pandemic; and
WHEREAS, on March 13, 2020, President Donald J. Trump issued a proclamation declaring that the COVID-19 outbreak in the United States constitutes a national emergency; and
WHEREAS, on March 17, 2020, a Proclamation of Public Health Disaster Emergency was issued to provide additional needed resources and measures to respond to this disaster, and such public health disaster continues to exist; and
WHEREAS, the risk of transmission of COVID-19 may be substantially reduced by continuing to ensure business takes appropriate public health precautions while reopening.
NOW THEREFORE, I, KIMBERLY K. REYNOLDS, Governor of the State of Iowa, by the power and authority vested in me by the Iowa Constitution, Art. IV, §§ 1, 8 and Iowa Code §§ 29C.6(1), 135.140(6), and 135.144 do hereby proclaim a STATE OF PUBLIC HEALTH DISASTER EMERGENCY continues to exist throughout the entire state of Iowa and do hereby ORDER and DIRECT the following:
PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE IOWANS
SECTION One
.  I continue to strongly encourage all vulnerable Iowans, including those with preexisting medical conditions and those older than 65, in all counties of the state to continue to limit their activities outside of their home, including their visits to businesses and other establishments and their participation in gatherings of any size and any purpose. And I encourage all Iowans to limit their in-person interactions with vulnerable Iowans and to exercise particular care and caution when engaging in any necessary interactions.
REOPENING OF BUSINESSES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION Two
.  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144 (3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, I hereby order that effective at 8:00 a.m. on June 12, 2020 and until 11:59 p.m. on June 25, 2020:
A. 
Restaurants and bars
: A restaurant or bar, including a wedding reception venue, winery, brewery, distillery, country club, or other social or fraternal club, may reopen or remain open to serve food and beverages on its premises, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)   Social distancing: The establishment must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual dining or drinking alone. Seating at booths closer than six feet may satisfy this requirement if the booths are separated by a barrier of a sufficient height to fully separate seated customers. All patrons must have a seat at a table or bar, and an establishment must limit patrons from congregating together closer than six feet.
(2)   Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The restaurant shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each restaurant to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals and the Iowa Department of Public Health.
B. 
Fitness centers
: A fitness center, health club, health spa, or gym may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)   Social distancing: The establishment must ensure that all equipment, such as treadmills, bikes, weight machines, benches, and power racks, are spaced at least six feet apart or take other appropriate measures to ensure that more closely spaced equipment is not used.
(2)   Group activities: Any group activities or classes must be limited to a number of people that permits maintaining a distance of six feet apart at all times.
(3)   Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The establishment shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
C. Casinos and gaming facilities: A casino or other facility conducting pari-mutuel wagering or gaming operations may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)   Social distancing: The establishment must encourage social distancing by spacing gaming positions at least six feet apart, turning off alternating gaming machines, or separating positions with a barrier of sufficient height to fully separate patrons. The establishment may operate table games provided that it takes reasonable measures to reduce the risk of transmission, such as limiting the number patrons at a table, encouraging or requiring face covering of patrons or employees, providing hand sanitizer, or taking other precautions.
(2)   Food and Beverage Service: The establishment shall comply with all the requirements of bars and restaurants in this Proclamation for any food and beverage service.
(3)   Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The establishment shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food or beverage service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
D. 
Senior citizen centers and adult daycare facilities
:  A facility that conducts adult day services or other senior citizen centers may reopen, but only to the extent that the establishment complies with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health to ensure social distancing, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures.
E. 
Salons and Barbershops
: A salon or barbershop, including any establishment providing the services of barbering, cosmetology, electrology, esthetics, nail technology, manicuring, and pedicuring may reopen, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)   Social distancing: The salon must ensure that all customers are at least six feet apart when performing cosmetology practices or barbering services.
(2)   Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The salon or barbershop shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each salon to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
F. 
Medical spas
: A medical spa, as defined in Iowa Admin Code § 653-13.8(1), may reopen or remain open to provide medical aesthetic services, but only if the medical spa complies with the requirements for performing outpatient procedures that utilize PPE in section 9, paragraph A, of this Proclamation.
G. 
Theaters and Performance Venues
: Any theater or performance venue at which motion pictures are shown or live performances are held may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that the theater complies with the following requirements:
(1)   Social distancing: The theater or performance venue must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone when seated in the theater.
(2)   Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The theater shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each theater to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
H. 
Race tracks
: A speedway or race track, including a track conducting horse or dog races, may reopen or continue its operations, provided that the establishment complies with the following requirements:
(1)   Social distancing: The establishment must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone when seated.
(2)   Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The establishment shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food or beverage service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
I.   
Malls
: An enclosed mall may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that it complies with the following requirements:
(1)   Play areas: Any play area or playground in a common area must remain closed.
(2)   Social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The mall shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each mall to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
J.  Other establishments: A museum, aquarium, zoo, library, indoor playground, children’s play center, swimming pool, bingo hall, bowling alley, pool hall, arcade, amusement park, campground, tanning facility, massage therapy establishment, tattoo establishment, or a retail establishment that was previously ordered to be closed statewide and then only in certain counties under section 5, paragraph I, of the Proclamation of Disaster Emergency issued on April 27, 2020, may reopen or remain open, but only to the extent that the facility takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
MASS GATHERINGS
SECTION Three
.  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144 (3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, continuing until 11:59 p.m. on June 25, 2020:
A. A social, community, recreational, leisure, or sporting gathering or event, including but not limited to a parade, festival, farmers market, auction, convention, or fundraiser, of more than ten people may be held, but only if the gathering complies with all other relevant provisions in this Proclamation and the following requirements:
(1)   Social distancing: The gathering organizer must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone.
(2)   Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The gathering organizer shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each gathering to ensure social distancing of gathering participants, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
B. Non-school sporting and recreational events: Practices, games, and competitions for baseball, softball, and individual sports, such as running, biking, swimming, tennis, and golf, are not prohibited by this section even where athletes may have some contact within six feet, provided that the organizer of such activities and events implements reasonable measures under the circumstances of each gathering to ensure reasonable social distancing, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
C. Spiritual and religious gatherings: Spiritual and religious gatherings, including any funerals or weddings, are not prohibited by this section. But a church, synagogue, or other host of a spiritual or religious gathering shall implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each gathering to ensure social distancing of employees, volunteers, and other participants, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
NONESSENTIAL OR ELECTIVE SURGERIES AND PROCEDURES
SECTION Four
.  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144(3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, I continue to order that until this disaster proclamation expires:
A. A hospital, outpatient surgery provider, or outpatient procedure provider may conduct in-patient surgeries and procedures that, if further delayed, will pose a significant risk to quality of life and any outpatient surgeries or procedures if the hospital or provider complies with the following requirements:
(1)   A hospital or provider must have:
(a)   Adequate inventories of personal protective equipment (PPE) and access to a reliable supply chain without relying on state or local government PPE stockpiles to support continued operations and respond to an unexpected surge in a timely manner; and
(b)  A plan to conserve PPE consistent with guidance from the CDC and Iowa Department of Public Health;
(2)   A hospital or provider must have a plan for timely COVID-19 testing of symptomatic patients and staff to rapidly mitigate potential clusters of infection and as otherwise clinically indicated. Providers must comply with any relevant guidance related to testing requirements for patients and staff issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health, the CDC, or a provider’s professional specialty society. For scheduled surgeries patients should have a negative COVID-19 test performed within 72 hours of surgery date.  If a COVID-19 test is not available, a hospital or provider should consider alternative methods to determine the patient’s probability of COVID-19. If the patient has symptoms of fever, cough, or low oxygen saturation, then postponing the surgery is recommended.
(3)   A hospital must continue to accept and treat COVID-19 patients and must not transfer COVID-19 patients to create capacity for elective procedures.
(4)   A hospital must reserve at least 10% of intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 10% of medical/surgical beds for COVID-19 patients.
(5)   A hospital or provider that begins conducting surgeries or procedures as authorized by this paragraph but is no longer able to satisfy all these requirements must cease conducting such surgeries or procedures except as authorized by paragraph B.  All hospitals and providers shall have a plan in place to monitor compliance and a transition plan to reduce or suspend procedures and surgeries as necessary.
B. Except as provided in paragraph A, all nonessential or elective surgeries and procedures that utilize PPE must not be conducted by any hospital, outpatient surgery provider, or outpatient procedure provider, whether public, private, or nonprofit.
C. A nonessential surgery or procedure is one that can be delayed without undue risk to the current or future health of a patient, considering all appropriate factors including, but not limited to any: (1) threat to the patient’s life if the surgery or procedure is not performed; (2) threat of permanent dysfunction of an extremity or organ system; (3) risk of metastasis or progression of staging; and (4) risk of rapidly worsening to severe symptoms.
D. Each hospital, outpatient surgery provider, and outpatient procedure provider shall limit all nonessential individuals in surgery and procedure suites and patient care areas where PPE is required. Only individuals essential to conducting the surgery or procedure shall be present in such areas.
E. Each hospital, outpatient surgery provider, and outpatient procedure provider shall establish an internal governance structure to ensure that the principles outlined above are followed.
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION Five
.  The Iowa Department of Public Safety, Iowa Department of Public Health, Iowa Department of Education, Iowa Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, Iowa Department of Transportation, and other participating state agencies are hereby directed to monitor the operation and implementation of this proclamation to assure the public's health and safety.
SECTION Six
.  In conjunction with the Department of Public Health pursuant to Iowa Code §§ 29C.18 and 135.35, all peace officers of the state are hereby called upon to assist in the enforcement of the provisions of this Proclamation.
SECTION Seven
.  The provisions of this proclamation shall be effective at 8:00 a.m. on June 12, 2020, unless otherwise noted. This proclamation shall not be construed to otherwise modify the proclamation of May 26, 2020. This state of public health disaster emergency shall continue to expire on June 25, 2020, at 11:59 p.m., unless sooner terminated or extended in writing by me.
‍


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/test-iowa-clinic-site-opens-at-peoples-community-health-clinic-in-waterloo


Test Iowa Clinic Site Opens at Peoples Community Health Clinic in Waterloo
June 5, 2020

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 6, 2020
 
Contact: Black Hawk County Health Department
Phone: 319-291-2413
publichealth@co.black-hawk.ia.us
 
 
Test Iowa Clinic Site Opens at Peoples Community Health Clinic in Waterloo
 
WATERLOO- Test Iowa will open a new clinic site at Peoples Community Health Clinic at 905 Franklin Street in downtown Waterloo on Wed., June 3. 
 
Thesite is a partnership between the State of Iowa and Peoples Community Health Clinic to increase access to testing in the community. Peoples Community Health Clinic will operate and staff the test site. Testing supplies will be provided and samples processed through the State Hygienic Lab.
 
The new site is not a drive-thru location like other Test Iowa sites. Individuals will be tested inside the clinic. Anyone who wants to be tested can be, but they must first complete a brief assessment at 
testiowa.com
 and then schedule an appointment at the clinic as directed. There is no cost to be tested.
 
The Test Iowa drive-thru site currently located at Crossroads Mall in Waterloo will close when testing concludes at 6 p.m. on Friday, June 12. The site opened on April 29.
 
Test Iowa’s mobile testing model makes it possible to quickly operationalize a temporary test site in a community where virus activity is increasing or access to testing is limited. Testing is rapidly scaled up to identify positive cases,conduct contact tracing, and determine scope of the virus in the community.Over time when test volume decreases, sites are moved to other communities where there is a need.
 
The new site at Peoples Community Health Clinic ensures Test Iowa will remain available in the Waterloo area. Testing is also available through local healthcare providers or at other Test Iowa sites statewide. 
 
For information and updates related to COVID-19:
Black Hawk County
: 
https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com
Social media: follow on Facebookand @BHCHD on 
Twitter
.  
Iowa Department of Public Health
: https://idph.iowa.gov/Emerging-Health-Issues/Novel-Coronavirus
Social Media: Facebook and@IAPublicHealth on 
Twitter
 
‍


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/graduation-guidance-from-black-hawk-county-health-department


Graduation Guidance from Black Hawk County Health Department
June 4, 2020

Have questions about how to safely hold a graduation or summer gathering? 
Below is Section 6 from the 5/27/20 proclamation from Governor Reynolds, regarding mass gatherings. The current gathering restrictions extend through 6/17/20. Any gatherings occurring after that may be under fewer or additional restrictions based on the Governor's proclamations.
Here is some helpful guidance from the Black Hawk County Health Department.
Guidance for Gatherings
 
Promote social distancing. 
 
Limit or spread out seating options.
 
Wearing masks or face coverings is recommended.
 
Outdoor gatherings are better than indoor. 
 
People who are ill should not attend. 
 
Think twice before inviting people who are at increased risk for illness.
Guidance for Food
 
Stay away from self-serve food menus. 
 
Have someone designated to serve food to guests, while wearing gloves. 
 
Guests should not reuse tableware or glasses.
 
Limit communal bowls of snacks and drinks. 
 
Do not let food sit uncovered. 
 
Have a hand wash station or hand sanitizer adjacent to the food table.
‍
Here is the section of the proclamation relevant to mass gatherings:
SECTION SIX. Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144 (3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, effective 12:01 a.m. on June 1, 2020, and continuing until 11:59 p.m. on June 17, 2020:
 A.   A social, community, recreational, leisure, or sporting gathering or event, including but not limited to a parade, festival, convention, or fundraiser, of more than ten people may be held, but only if the gathering complies with all other relevant provisions in this Proclamation and the following requirements:
‍
 (1) Capacity limited: The gathering organizer must limit the number of participants present in any indoor venue to 50% of its normal operating capacity to ensure adequate spacing of groups. The gathering organizer must limit the number of participants present in any outdoor venue with grandstands or other permanent seating to 50% of its normal operating capacity and the number of participants in other outdoor settings to a number that permits the social distancing required by paragraph 2.
‍
 (2) Social distancing: The gathering organizer must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone.
‍
 (3) Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The gathering organizer shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each gathering to ensure social distancing of gathering participants, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
 
Any social, community, recreational, leisure, and sporting gatherings and events of more than 10 people that does not comply with these requirements shall continue to be prohibited at all locations and venues.
‍
‍


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/black-hawk-county-health-department-covid-19-update


Black Hawk County Health Department COVID-19 Update
May 29, 2020

Over the past 11 weeks, Black Hawk County Health Department, along with community partners, hosted regular press briefings to provide COVID-19 updates to the media and public. Due to the local COVID-19 situation beginning to stabilize and the rate of new information and recommendations slowing, Black Hawk County Health Department will be transitioning out of hosting regular press briefings but will remain ready to provide information as needed. Press briefings will now be held on an as-needed basis. When held, the press briefings are live-streamed on the Black Hawk County Health Department 
Facebook page
 and are available to our media partners for sharing. The briefings are also posted on the Black Hawk County 
COVID-19 website
. Summaries and videos for each press briefing are available on the website as well. 
Please remember COVID-19 is still spreading within Black Hawk County. People continue to become ill and are at risk to be hospitalized and die from this disease. Therefore, we ask the public to stay vigilant and continue to
 practice prevention activities
. This includes staying home when possible, social distancing, wearing a mask in public, washing your hands frequently, and staying home when sick.  It’s important that our residents do their part to protect themselves and the community from COVID-19.
‍


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/5-28-20-local-covid-19-eoc-press-briefing


5/28/20 Local COVID-19 EOC Press Briefing
May 28, 2020

The local COVID-19 press briefing can be found 
here
. Speakers included representatives from Black Hawk County Emergency Management Agency, Black Hawk County Health Department, MercyOne, People's Community Health Clinic and Unity Point.
This will be the last regularly scheduled EOC press briefing. Other press briefings will be announced if indicated.


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/gov-reynolds-signs-new-proclamation-continuing-the-state-public-health-emergency-declaration-5


Gov. Reynolds signs new proclamation continuing the State Public Health Emergency Declaration
May 26, 2020

Gov. Reynolds signs new proclamation continuing the State Public Health Emergency Declaration
Tue, 05/26/2020 - 12:15
Today, Governor Reynolds signed a new proclamation continuing the Public Health Disaster Emergency until June 25, 2020.
As previously announced, the proclamation permits bars, wineries, breweries, distilleries, and social and fraternal clubs may reopen on May 28 with the same public health measures as restaurants in place.
The proclamation also permits the reopening on June 1 of additional establishments, including outdoor performance venues, casinos, bowling alleys, amusement parks, skating rinks, skate parks, outdoor playgrounds.  
The proclamation again permits social, community, recreational, leisure, and sporting gatherings and events of more than 10 people if public health measures are implemented, including limiting attendance to 50% of the venue capacity and maintaining six feet of distance between those attending. This also allows practices, games, and competitions for youth and adult baseball, softball, and individual sports such as running, biking, swimming, tennis, and golf to resume with appropriate public health measures in place.
And the proclamation extends regulatory relief to those affected by this public health emergency until June 25.
The full proclamation can be read 
online in its entirety.
‍


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/test-iowa-site-update


Test Iowa Site Update
May 22, 2020

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May22, 2020
 
Contact: Black Hawk CountyHealth Department
Phone: 319-291-2413
publichealth@co.black-hawk.ia.us
 
The Test Iowa site in Black Hawk County located at Crossroads Mall (2060 Crossroads Blvd #124, Waterloo, Iowa, 50702) will remain open next week 5/26/20 to 5/29/20 from 8:00 am to 6:00 pm daily.  
 
A schedule of sites, locations and times can be found on 
here
.
 
Test Iowa is a statewide initiative to expand COVID-19 testing. Testing criteria now allows any Iowan to be tested, regardless of symptoms or potential exposure to the virus. To be tested, Iowans must first complete an assessment on the 
Test Iowa website
 and schedule an appointment at a test site.
 
 
For information and updates relatedto COVID-19:
Black Hawk County
: 
https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com
Social media: follow on 
Facebook 
and @BHCHD on 
Twitter
.  
Iowa Department of Public Health
:
 https://idph.iowa.gov/Emerging-Health-Issues/Novel-Coronavirus 
Social Media: 
Facebook 
and @IAPublicHealth on 
Twitter
‍


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/5-21-20-local-covid-19-eoc-press-briefing


5/21/20 Local COVID-19 EOC Press Briefing
May 21, 2020

The 5/21/20 Local COVID-19 EOC Press Briefing can be found 
here
.
Speakers included representatives from Black Hawk County Sheriff's Office, Black Hawk County Health Department, and EMBARC. Next press briefing will be 5/28/20.


Scraping from https://www.blackhawkcovid19.com/posts/gov-reynolds-signs-new-proclamation-continuing-the-state-public-health-emergency-declaration-4


Gov. Reynolds signs new proclamation continuing the State Public Health Emergency Declaration
May 20, 2020

Today, Governor Reynolds signed a new proclamation continuing the Public Health Disaster Emergency. The proclamation permits summer school activities, including baseball and softball, to resume on June 1.  And effective this Friday, May 22, Movie theaters, zoos, aquariums, museums, and wedding reception venues will be permitted to reopen with appropriate public health measures in place. Swimming pools will also be permitted to reopen for lap swimming and swimming lessons.
Governor Reynolds also announced that next Thursday, May 28, bars and other alcohol-related establishments that have been limited to carryout and delivery will be permitted to reopen for indoor or outdoor seating. These establishments will follow the same public health measures that restaurants have been implementing for the past several weeks.
The proclamation also provides additional regulatory relief to those affected by this disaster and continues to strongly encourages all vulnerable Iowans, including those with preexisting medical conditions and those older than 65, in all counties of the state to continue to limit their activities outside of their home, including their visits to businesses and other establishments and their participation in gatherings of any size and any purpose
The 
full proclamation is online in its entirety
 and substantive information can be found below: 
NOW THEREFORE, I, KIMBERLY K. REYNOLDS, Governor of the State of Iowa, by the power and authority vested in me by the Iowa Constitution, Art. IV, §§ 1, 8 and Iowa Code §§ 29C.6(1), 135.140(6), and 135.144 do hereby proclaim a STATE OF PUBLIC HEALTH DISASTER EMERGENCY continues to exist throughout the entire state of Iowa and do hereby ORDER and DIRECT the following:
PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE IOWANS
SECTION ONE.
  I continue to strongly encourage all vulnerable Iowans, including those with preexisting medical conditions and those older than 65, in all counties of the state to continue to limit their activities outside of their home, including their visits to businesses and other establishments and their participation in gatherings of any size and any purpose. And I encourage all Iowans to limit their in-person interactions with vulnerable Iowans and to exercise particular care and caution when engaging in any necessary interactions.
REOPENING OF BUSINESSES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
(Statewide)
SECTION TWO.
  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144(3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, I hereby order that effective at 5:00 a.m. on May 22, 2020 and until 11:59 p.m. on May 27, 2020:
A.   Movie Theaters:
 Any theater at which motion pictures are shown may reopen, but only to the extent that the theater complies with the following requirements:
(1)  Capacity limited: The theater must limit the number of patrons present in any individual theater to 50% of its normal operating capacity to ensure adequate spacing of groups.
(2)  Social distancing: The theater must ensure at least six feet of physical distance between each group or individual attending alone when seated in the theater.
(3)  Self-service prohibited:  The theater must not have any self-service of food or beverages.
(4)  Other social distancing, hygiene, and public health measures: The theater shall also implement reasonable measures under the circumstances of each theater to ensure social distancing of employees and customers, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health and, for any food service, the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
All other theaters and performance venues at which live performances are held shall continue to be closed.
B. Museums, aquariums, and zoos:
 A museums, aquarium, or zoo may reopen, but only to the extent that the establishment takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
C.   Swimming pools:
 A swimming pool, as defined in Iowa Code § 135I.1 may reopen for the limited purpose of lap swimming and conducting swimming lessons, but only to the extent that the establishment operating the pool takes reasonable measures under the circumstances of each establishment to ensure social distancing of employees and patrons, increased hygiene practices, and other public health measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 consistent with Guidance issued by the Iowa Department of Public Health. Except for these limited purposes, all swimming pools and spas, wading pools, water slides, wave pools, spray pads, and bath houses, as defined in Iowa Code § 135I.1, shall continue to be closed.
SUMMER SCHOOL ACTIVITIES
SECTION THREE.
  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144(13), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health and the Iowa Department of Education, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation, a public school or nonpublic school, as defined in Iowa Code § 280.2, may reopen for school-sponsored activities and learning effective June 1, 2020, but only to the extent that such activities and learning are consistent with guidance of the Iowa Department of Education, the Iowa High School Athletic Association, and the Iowa Girls High School Athletic Union, as applicable. Any such school-sponsored activity that is conducted consistent with this guidance shall not be a violation of the prohibition on social, community, recreational, leisure, and sporting gatherings and events of more than 10 people under section 5 of the Proclamation of Disaster Emergency issued on May 13, 2020.
WEDDING RECEPTIONS
SECTION FOUR.
  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144(3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, effective 5:00 a.m. on May 22, 2020 and until 11:59 p.m. on May 27, 2020, a wedding reception may be held provided that the establishment hosting the wedding reception complies with all the requirements of a restaurant under section 2, paragraph A, of the Proclamation of Disaster Emergency issued on May 13, 2020. Such a reception that is hosted in compliance with those requirements shall not be a violation of the prohibition on social, community, recreational, leisure, and sporting gatherings and events of more than 10 people under section 5 of that Proclamation of Disaster of Emergency.
AUCTIONS
SECTION FIVE.
  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 135.144(3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, unless otherwise modified by subsequent proclamation or order of the Iowa Department of Public Health, effective at 5:00 a.m. on May 22, 2020, any auctions may operate, so long as there are no more than 25 people present in person. Auctions with more than 25 people present in person may operate only if they are conducted outdoors and the auction organizer takes measures to ensure that each group or individual attending alone maintains at least six feet of physical distance.  All other auctions continue to be prohibited until 11:59 p.m. on May 27, 2020, at all locations and venues.
TEMPORARY TEACHER LICENSURE
SECTION SIX. 
 Pursuant to Iowa Code §§ 29C.6(6) and 135.144(3), I temporarily suspend the regulatory provisions of Iowa Code section 272.2(22) and Iowa Admin. Code rule 282-13.6(1) requiring an applicant for a one-year temporary license to provide the board of educational examiners proof of an offer of a teaching position from a school district that can show it has made every reasonable and good faith effort to employ a teacher licensed under Chapter 272, so that the Board of Educational Examiners may issue a one-year temporary license to new teachers unable to complete the requirements for initial licensure as a result of this public health disaster emergency.
IOWA YOUTH SURVEY
SECTION SEVEN.
  Pursuant to Iowa Code § 29C.6(6) and Iowa Code § 135.144(3), and in conjunction with the Iowa Department of Public Health, I temporarily suspend the regulatory provisions of Iowa Code § 135.11(28) requiring administration of the Iowa youth survey every two years to students in grades six, eight, and eleven in Iowa’s public and nonpublic schools.  I hereby direct the Iowa Department of Public Health to provide guidance to Iowa’s public and nonpublic schools regarding administration of the survey in 2021.
POOL REGISTRATION FEES
SECTION EIGHT. 
 Pursuant to Iowa Code § 29C.6(6), I temporarily suspend the regulatory provisions of Iowa Administrative Code rule 641-15.12(1), to the extent it requires a $25 penalty for each month or fraction thereof that the registration for a swimming pool or spa is not received by the Department of Public Health by April 30 or the first business day thereafter if the pool is closed during the month. I hereby direct the Department to issue a refund to any owner having already paid a penalty under this rule for the registration period that began on May 1, 2020.
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION NINE.
  The Iowa Department of Public Safety, Iowa Department of Public Health, Iowa Department of Education, Iowa Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, Iowa Department of Transportation, and other participating state agencies continue to be directed to monitor the operation and implementation of this proclamation to assure the public's health and safety.
SECTION TEN.
  In conjunction with the Department of Public Health pursuant to Iowa Code §§ 29C.18 and 135.35, all peace officers of the state continue to be called upon to assist in the enforcement of the provisions of this Proclamation.
SECTION ELEVEN.
  Nothing contained in this declaration shall be construed as an exemption from any other portion of the Iowa Code or Iowa Administrative Code not specifically identified in this proclamation.
SECTION TWELVE.
  The provisions of this proclamation shall be effective immediately, unless otherwise noted. This proclamation shall not be construed to otherwise modify the proclamations of April 27, 2020, May 6, 2020, or May 13, 2020. This state of public health disaster emergency shall continue to expire on May 27, 2020, at 11:59 p.m., unless sooner terminated or extended in writing by me.
‍