


Scraping from https://dallascohealth.wordpress.com/




May 14, 2020: Dallas County Health Encourages Continued Mitigation Efforts as Businesses Re-open


This week Governor Reynolds issued a proclamation allowing certain Dallas County businesses to re-open with restrictions. Effective 5:00am May 15, 2020- 11:59 May 27, 2020 the following measures are in effect.




The full proclamation can be read at 
https://coronavirus.iowa.gov/pages/proclamations
.


The Dallas County Health Department encourages all residents to continue public health recommendations as businesses are allowed to re-open.


Wash hands frequently with soap and water for 20 seconds. Use sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol when soap and water are not available.
Continue to stay home as much as possible. Leave only for essential errands such as a trip to the grocery store or pharmacy. When you run these errands, send only one person per household.
Stay home when even mildly ill (the kind of illness that normally wouldn’t prevent you from your everyday activities)
Limit social gatherings to only members of your household who reside together. Gatherings should be less than 10 people.
Cover coughs and sneezes with your elbow or a tissue. Wash hands after coughing or sneezing.
Avoid touching your face, eyes, nose, and mouth.
Wear a facial mask when making essential trips where distancing is not possible.
Maintain a 6 foot distance from people outside your household.
Call your health care provider before arriving at the clinic if you are feeling ill.


For up-to-date information on COVID-19, including a map with county, regional, and long term care outbreak information visit 
http://www.coronavirus.iowa.gov
. Find Dallas County specific data and resources at 
https://dallas-county-coronavirus-response-geodallas.hub.arcgis.com/
. Follow 
@
DallasCoHealth
 for updated guidelines and additional information.


###




 

May 4, 2020: COVID-19 Death Confirmed in Dallas County 


The Dallas County Health Department today announced the first death associated with novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in the county. The individual was a between 61 and 80 years old.


“We wish to extend our sympathy to this individual’s family,” said Dallas County Health Department Director, Suzanne Hegarty. “Dallas County Health and all of our key partners throughout the county and state continue to work to limit the spread and impact of this virus in our communities.”


All residents should:


Continue to stay home as much as possible. Leave only for essential errands like groceries or getting medication. When you run these errands, send only one person from the household, if possible.
Stay home when even mildly ill (the kind of illness that normally wouldn’t prevent you from your everyday activities)
Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue or your elbow/upper arm.
Wash hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.


For up-to-date information on COVID-19, visit the Dallas County website 
https://dallas-county-coronavirus-response-geodallas.hub.arcgis.com/
 where information is available in many languages. You may follow news and updated COVID-19 guidelines on Facebook, 
@DallasCoHealth
.


###






 

April 28, 2020: Dallas County Health Department Reminds Residents COVID-19 Still Spreading in Dallas County


Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds signed a proclamation Monday allowing the reopening of some business types and lifting gathering requirements for certain counties beginning May 1. The proclamation applies to 77 counties in Iowa where COVID-19 activity remains lowest.


The new guidelines do not apply to organizations in Dallas County due to ongoing COVID-19 activity.


“It’s important for residents and businesses in Dallas County to remember COVID-19 is still spreading in our community,” said Suzanne Hegarty, Dallas County Health Department Director. “We aren’t out of the woods yet. There is still a lot of work to be done, so we need everyone to continue practicing social distancing and other public health recommendations to slow the spread of the virus.”


You can do your part by staying home as much as possible, avoiding groups of people, only going out for essentials like groceries, and medical care, and staying home if you’re sick. If you do feel sick, call ahead, rather than simply showing up at a clinic or hospital.
The proclamation does not apply to the counties of Allamakee, Benton, Black Hawk, Bremer, Dallas, Des Moines, Dubuque, Fayette, Henry, Iowa, Jasper, Johnson, Linn, Louisa, Marshall, Muscatine, Polk, Poweshiek, Scott, Tama, Washington, or Woodbury due to ongoing COVID-19 activity in those areas.


Read the full proclamation here: 
https://governor.iowa.gov/press-release/gov-reynolds-signs-new-proclamation-continuing-the-state-public-health-emergency-0


###



April 27, 2020: Dallas County Confirms Outbreak in a Long-Term Care Center


The Iowa Department of Public Health (IDPH) and Dallas County Health Department have identified 12 cases of COVID-19 at Pearl Valley Rehabilitation and Health Care Center, a long-term care facility in Dallas County. According to IDPH, an outbreak occurs when three or more cases of COVID-19 are identified among residents of a facility.
The facility has notified residents and their families, and consistent with IDPH guidelines, the affected residents are in isolation. Pearl Valley staff are working closely with IDPH and Dallas County Health Department to protect the health of all residents and staff, with additional testing of residents and staff as directed by IDPH.


“Protecting the health and wellbeing of the residents and staff is of the highest priority,” said Dallas County Health Department Director Suzanne Hegarty. “We know our older population is at the highest risk for serious COVID-19 illness, so we are monitoring the situation carefully and taking the highest precautions to prevent virus spread.”


As of today, April 27, 2020, there are 179 total cases of COVID-19 in Dallas County. The Dallas County Health Department continues to work closely with the Iowa Department of Public Health (IDPH), and other state and local partners to respond to this ongoing pandemic.


For up-to-date information on COVID-19, including an interactive map with county, regional and long-term care outbreak information, visit 
https://idph.iowa.gov/Emerging-Health-Issues/Novel-Coronavirus
. Find Dallas County specific data and resources at 
https://dallas-county-coronavirus-response-geodallas.hub.arcgis.com/
.


###



April 21, 2020: Governor launches Test Iowa Initiative to expand testing capacity


Governor Kim Reynolds, through partnership with Nomi Health and DOMO, has launched the Test Iowa Initiative to expand COVID-19 testing capacity in Iowa. 


“Iowa is now the second state in the nation to deploy this ambitious initiative, and starting today I am encouraging Iowans to go to 
testiowa.com
 to complete their own health assessment. This type of information will help Iowans assess eligibility for testing and further inform the state’s response to COVID-19,” said Governor Reynolds. 


In her press conference the Governor stated that the goal was to administer around 3,000 tests daily over the next 180 days. She emphasized that the website is secure and HIPPA compliant to protect the health information of all Iowans. 


Dallas County Health Department encourages all residents to take the quick, online assessment, especially if you are experiencing symptoms or have been in contact with someone that has tested positive. 


###



April 19: Emergency Food Sources


Residents of Dallas County are doing a great job of staying home except for necessary trips.


If you are running low on both food and money, remember that the Mobile Food Pantries are still operating.  The Food Bank of Iowa has changed the process at all locations to protect both volunteers and participants.  You will remain in your vehicle and your pre-bagged groceries will be loaded for you.


The Mobile Food Pantries are free and for anyone.  Large household (six persons or more), receive a double portion of all items.  You will be asked your name and address for record keeping, but do not have to show an ID or proof of income.


Schedule for the coming weeks:


Monday April 20, Crossroads Church at 1200 60
th
 St, West Des Moines; for Waukee school district
Tuesday April 21, American Legion at 137 S. Chestnut Ave, Earlham; for Earlham school district
Wednesday April 22, Dallas County Hospital at 610 10
th
 St, Perry; for Perry school district
Monday April 27, New Hope Youth Center at 712 Cottage St, Adel; for ADM and Van Meter school districts


See 
https://www.foodbankiowa.org/
 for more information.


Also available are free to-go meals at local schools.  In Perry, the USDA Summer Food Service Program is providing meals for children age 18 and under.  In accordance with Governor Reynold’s encouragement to have just one member of the household do errands, children do not have to be present to get these school meals.  For accountability, the program will ask which school the child attends.


Pick up to-go school meals between 10:30am and 12:00pm Monday – Friday at the Perry Elementary School or at the Perry High School.  There is an interactive GIS map of school to-go meals on the Dallas County website. 
https://dallas-county-coronavirus-response-geodallas.hub.arcgis.com/app/8d649d9683ec4dc88a80e9533703c91b
  Click first on Food Assistance and then on the School Lunch icon on the map to see details of the address, times, and other information about the meal site.


###



April 9, 2020: COVID-19 Outbreak Guidance for Businesses


The Iowa Department of Public Health has released a statement of guidance for businesses concerning outbreaks of COVID-19 among their workforce.


Please report to the Iowa Department of Public Health when 10% or greater of your employees are reporting COVID-19 symptoms (including fever, cough, sore throat, difficulty breathing, or any other respiratory symptom). This process is similar to reports required by school districts for outbreaks among students.


Report COVID-19 symptom outbreaks of 10% or more among employees to Public Health by filling out the survey at this link: 
https://redcap.idph.state.ia.us/surveys/?s=NRJ4FDMDPN
.


Additional guidance from the Iowa Department of Public Health is at the following link.
https://idph.iowa.gov/Portals/1/userfiles/7/Guidance%20for%20businesses%20COVID%20Outbreak.pdf


###



April 2, 2020: Dallas County Releases New COVID-19 Data Dashboard


Dallas County GIS has developed a new 
dashboard
 containing current county data and resources including case counts; county, state, and national information sources; childcare & food program maps; and, social streams from reliable county sources. The data dashboard is accessible on the 
Dallas County Health Department COVID-19 webpage
.


Dallas County Health Department continues to emphasize the need for everyone to wash hands frequently, cover coughs & sneezes, and stay home as much as possible. These are actions that everyone can practice to help reduce the spread of the virus.  


Residents should be practicing physical distancing by limiting time outside the home and keeping 6+ feet away from those outside their household. When completing essential tasks, such as grocery shopping, consider these recommendations:


Send one member per household to complete the task
Maintain a 6+ foot distance from others. Try to keep a two cart gap between you and other shoppers. Don’t stand right next to the other people in line; leave some space.
Consider calling ahead or ordering online to limit in person interactions with others.
Limit the number of trips and locations you visit. Try to shop for two weeks at a time.


Dallas County Health Department also reminds residents to seek credible information sources when sharing COVID-19 news and updates. The following resources are credible websites and social media accounts to follow for up to date information:


Dallas County Health Department
Iowa Department of Public Health
Governor Kim Reynolds
Centers for Disease Control & Prevention


###



March 25, 2020: Find Assistance during COVID-19 


Many assistance programs are available to help get residents through this emergency. Some services have changed their service hours or operating procedures in response to COVID-19. 


Dallas County WIC services continue over the phone. Face to face appointments have been suspended. Current and new families are encouraged to call 
WIC
 so they can enroll over the phone and provide benefits:  515-282-5800


If you are laid off due to COVID-19 or have to stay home to self-isolate, care for family members or due to illness related to COVID-19, you can receive 
unemployment benefits
 provided you meet all other eligibility criteria. Work search requirements will be waived. Apply for unemployment insurance at 
www.iowaworkforcedevelopment.gov
.


Small businesses needing assistance can apply for a 
small business loan
 or the 
small business relief grant
. Non-profits can apply for a 
Non-profit Emergency Operating Relief Grant
.


The Iowa Department of Human Services is working to establish temporary emergency childcare for the essential workforce including healthcare, first responders, and critical infrastructure. 
Guidance for temporary emergency childcare
 is now available. DHS and Child Care Resource and Referral have also provided 
step by step direction
s for sites wanting to provide emergency temporary childcare. 


For those needing to 
locate childcare
, available sites can be found at Iowa 
CCR&R
. Income-eligible parents may be eligible for 
childcare assistance
.


Residents seeking health insurance to cover COVID-19 related costs can call 515-465-7673 to apply for 
3-day emergency Medicaid
.


Mobile food pantries
 continue to run as usual but have adopted a drive through model. The congregate meal at Sugar Creek Apartments will be serving meals to go. The Perry congregate meal site has closed. Meals on Wheels continues to operate across the county. Call 515-255-1310 to get connected with the MOW provider closest to you. 


Free grab & go lunches
 are available at many of our school districts for anyone under age 18. 


Adel-Minburn-De Soto Community Schools
Adel Elementary: M-F 11:00-11:45am
De Soto Intermediate: M-F 12:30-1:15pm
Minburn Building: M-F 9:45-10:30am
MS/HS Campus: M-F 11:00-11:45am
Dallas Center-Grimes Community Schools
Dallas Center Elementary: M-F 10:00am-1:00pm
South Prairie Elementary: M-F 10:00am-1:00pm
Panorama Community Schools
11:30-11:45am lunch drop off at Yale, Jamaica, Bagley, Linden, & Panora locations. Sign up by emailing shawn.holloway@panorama.k12.ia.us 
Perry Community Schools
Perry Elementary: M-F 10:30am-12:00pm
Perry High School: M-F 10:30am-12:00pm
Van Meter Community Schools
Prairie Village: 11:00-11:30am
Crestview Estates: 11:35am-12:05pm
Secondary Building: 11:00am-1:00pm
Waukee Community Schools
Windfield West Apartments: M-F 11:00am-12:00pm
Sun Prairie Apartments: M-F 11:00am-12:00pm
West Central Valley Community Schools
Stuart Elementary: MWF 11:00am-12:00pm
Dexter Elementary: MWF 11:00am-12:00pm
Menlo City Park: MWF 11:00am-12:00pm
Redfield Middle School: MWF 11:00am-12:00pm
Woodward Granger Community Schools


For help finding additional resources, residents can contact the Dallas County Health Navigation Program at 515-993-3750. For General COVID-19 questions, 2-1-1 is available across the state.


###





March 20, 2020: Dallas County Health Department Explains Social Distancing


Dallas County Health Department and the Iowa Department of Public Health (IDPH) remind residents they play a vital role in stopping the spread of COVID-19. A critical part of containment is practicing social distancing.


“Social distancing is a term used to describe certain actions public health and individuals can take to stop or slow the spread of an infectious disease,” said Dallas County Health Department Director Suzanne Hegarty. The government mandates some actions, like business or school closings; for example, Governor Reynolds issued a State of Public Health Disaster Emergency on March 16, 2020, which expires April 16, 2020. Individuals can also practice social distancing in their everyday lives. These actions include:


Avoiding groups of people.
Keeping a 6-foot distance between themselves and those around them; for instance, keeping this distance when in a line at the grocery store. A 6-foot distance is about the length of a twin-size bed.
Stay home even if mildly ill.
If you are ill at home, isolating yourself from others in your home who are well.


In addition, Dallas County reminds everyone to wash their hands frequently, and cover their coughs and sneezes with a tissue or their upper arm.


Hegarty says it’s also important to know that about 80% of Iowans infected with COVID-19 will experience only mild to moderate illness. Those individuals do not need testing to confirm they have the virus and they do not need to be seen by a health care provider. If they feel ill enough that they believe they need to see a health care provider, they should call before going into the clinic. The provider may have special instructions for their visit.


Ill residents should stay home and isolate from others in the house until:


You have had no fever for at least 72 hours (that is three full days of no fever without the use of medicine that reduces fevers); 
AND,
Other symptoms have improved (for example, when your cough or shortness of breath have improved); 
AND
,
At least 7 days have passed since your symptoms first appeared.


For information about Governor Reynolds’ proclamation, visit 
https://bit.ly/2UmfL6J
. For up-to-date information on COVID-19, visit the IDPH webpage at 
https://bit.ly/2Wx7iAo
 and follow the department on Facebook at 
@IowaDepartmentOfPublicHealth
 and on Twitter at 
@IAPublicHealth
.


###

