


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/covid-19/default.aspx





Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18686


From Buncombe District Attorney Todd WilliamsAs Chief Justice Beasley’s recent Order signals the beginning of the restoration of more normal courthouse operations, I want to take this opportunity to summarize where we are going and where we have been since the emergency shutdown of court was ordered March 13th.As we move toward reopening next week I want to provide a summary of the DA’s Office’s re-opening strategy:The DA’s Office appreciates that these are extraordinary times but our work advocating for public safety and victim’s rights must continue while we also strive to do justice and ensure procedural fairness, case by case.*A complete list of Class A1 Misdemeanors can be found at this 
link
. The DA’s Office worked with partners in the Sheriff’s Office and the Judiciary to reduce jail population by up to 40% to reduce the chance of a Covid-19 outbreak in Buncombe Detention;We continued hundreds of court dates well into the summer to reduce foot-traffic and prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the courthouse;We dismissed thousands of minor traffic tickets and other matters for similar reasons.In District Court, we will prioritize Domestic Violence, DWIs and Class A1 Misdemeanors* for prosecution. If you are charged with these crimes you must come to court. If you fail to come to court, we will ask judges to issue an order for your arrest. (Common A1s include: Assault on a Female, Sexual Battery, Assault with a Deadly Weapon, Assault Inflicting Serious Injury, Assault by Pointing a Gun, Assault on a Child under 12, Misdemeanor Child Abuse, Assault on a Governmental Official, Secret Peeping, Stalking, Death by Motor Vehicle, and Violation of DV Protective Order).If you are charged with a felony pending in Superior Court you must come to court unless your attorney instructs otherwise. If you’re charged with any other crime, contact your lawyer for information about your court date. If you are charged with a non-Class A1 misdemeanor or a felony currently pending in District Court the DA’s Office and the Courts will use social distancing technology and procedures when possible to resolve these cases without the physical presence of the defendant. In short, contact your lawyer immediately for more information.If you received a June or July administrative court date for a traffic matter or misdemeanor, your case has been rescheduled. Go to BuncombeDA.org to look up your new court date. The DA’s Office soon plans to add new services to BuncombeDA.org. If you don’t know your court date, have a question about your case and you don’t have a lawyer, you will soon be able to submit a question through the website. If you do not have access to the internet and do not have a lawyer, you may call 828/259-3410 for assistance.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18678


From the Joint Information CenterASHEVILLE, N.C. – With older adults accounting for nearly 90 percent of COVID-19 related deaths in North Carolina, and thousands of individuals over the age of 65 socially isolated for almost two months due to the State’s stay-at-home order, a team of Buncombe-area community organizers, agencies, and providers are collaborating to identify and address the aging population’s increased needs during the COVID-19 crisis.Buncombe County, in collaboration with Buncombe Aging Services Alliance (BASA), is working to distribute information about available community resources promoting safety and social connection for seniors. Collaborators are calling on our community to keep a watchful eye on family, friends, and neighbors and share the following resources with those who need them.“We fear that older adults who were already experiencing isolation or having a difficult time with aging are at an even greater risk for depression, neglect, or decline as a result of prolonged social distancing,” said Elizabeth Williams, Executive Director of MountainCare, a local agency offering adult care services. “Providers within the aging community have been working hard to serve existing clients in innovative ways. We are now turning our focus towards outreach for folks who are not on our radar.”Compared with April 2019, there was a 28.4% decrease in reports to the Buncombe County Adult Protective Services (APS) registry last month, raising concerns about underreporting in the area. APS is available 24 hours a day to respond to the needs of adults during COVID-19 and can be reached at (828) 250-5800.According to the National Institute on Aging in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, research has linked social isolation and loneliness to higher risks for a variety of physical and mental conditions: high blood pressure, heart disease, obesity, a weakened immune system, anxiety, depression, cognitive decline, Alzheimer’s disease, and even death.As of May 8, older adults comprised 86% of COVID-19 related 
deaths
 in North Carolina. Currently more than 
16% of COVID-19
 cases in the county and 1 in 5 cases state-wide belong to individuals over the age of 65, with concerns that number may increase as more seniors begin to venture out in public during the first phase of reopening. Even with restrictions slowly lifting, the 
CDC
 continues to recommend avoiding exposure by limiting close contact, washing hands frequently, wearing cloth face coverings, and disinfecting touched surfaces.Heather Bauer, Executive Director of The Council on Aging of Buncombe County (CoA), notes that this high-risk group may not be aware of the services and assistance available to them.“We wish to ensure basic needs are met, that unnecessary exposure is avoided, such as going to the grocery store, and that those who lack adequate resources are connected to available help,” Bauer said. For instance, CoA offers nutrition services to low- and middle-income older adults through food delivery programs. Staff and volunteers deliver a food bag of shelf-stable items to your door, serving approximately 4 meals per bag.Call (828) 277-8288 for details and a brief eligibility screening (must be 60 or older). You can also connect with a resource coordinator for assistance with SNAP applications, Affordable Care Act help, Medicare counseling, and care management. For a full list of services, visit 
www.coabc.org
.To address social needs, UNC Asheville, UNC Health Sciences at MAHEC, and Healthy Aging North Carolina teamed up to develop the Social Bridging Project, a service pairing older adults with trained student volunteers who provide conversation, check-ins, and technology training to help seniors connect socially with friends and loved ones. Volunteers are also able to provide referrals for additional resources if desired. Please leave a message at (828) 771-3445 or send an email to 
Tasha.Woodall@mahec.net
 to sign-up or for more information.The 
Area Agency on Aging (AAA) at Land of Sky Regional Council
 is encouraging older adults to continue focusing on their general health and disease prevention.“With so much outside of our control right now, and increased concern for older adults’ health, it’s important to stay vigilant in managing chronic conditions,” said Stephanie Stewart, Land of Sky Regional Council Aging Program Specialist. “By keeping healthy and active at home, older adults can reduce unnecessary medical appointments and feel more in control of their lives and well-being.”A program through AAA provides tool kits for a self-led chronic disease education program and offers weekly coaching calls with a group of up to four other participants. The tool kit includes a resource book, an exercise CD, and a stress reduction and relaxation CD. If you are interested in learning more about this free program, please call or email Stephanie Stewart at (828) 251-7438 or 
stephanie@landofsky.org
.It is also important for those over the age of 65 to enroll their household in 
Community Connect
 to help first responders in the event that they are called to your home. Community Connect is a free, secure, and easy to use platform that allows you to share critical information about your household that will aid first responders and emergency response personnel when responding to your residence. By providing information about your household that you feel is important for us to know about at the time of an emergency, we can ensure you and everything you care about is protected to the best of our ability. Visit 
www.buncombeready.org
 to sign up for Community Connect or contact your local fire department to get signed up.If you or someone you know is struggling and unsure of where to begin, one recommended starting point is to call 211, a community information and social services referral line. NC 211 is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and provides multilingual assistance and TDD/TTY access for those with a hearing impairment. ADDITIONAL AREA SERVICES FOR OLDER ADULTSJewish Family Services of WNC
 -- Comprehensive services including mental health counseling (accepting Medicare and other insurances), case management, and caregiver support. Call 828-253-2900.Meals on Wheels of Asheville and Buncombe County
 – Our capacity for meal delivery has increased in response to the pandemic. Please call (828) 253-5286 for more information.MountainCare
 – Adult care services, grief support counseling, music therapy, wheeled mobility clinic, and Rathbun House. Contact 
connect@mtncare.org
 for more information.Mountain Mobility 
– Transportation for Buncombe County residents. Call (828) 250-6750.YMCA of WNC
 – health programming, markets and meal programs, and virtual offerings. Call (828) 210-9622.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18598


Information provided by the North Carolina Justice Center:You can find updated information about tenant rights from the North Carolina Justice Center 
here
. Please be aware, information is changing rapidly, and the below PDFs were updated on April 5. The information is provided in English and Spanish.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18601


Buncombe County officials continue to take proactive steps to keep our community safe and healthy during the COVID-19 Coronavirus pandemic.Governor Cooper has signed 
Executive Order (EO) No. 147
, which will go into effect June 26, 2020, at 5 p.m., and Buncombe County will be fully aligning with this new order. EO 147 extends Phase 2 of Reopening for 3 more weeks, until July 17. Buncombe County Public Health has issued a superseding Stay Safe, Stay Smart Declaration that will go into effect at 
5 p.m. on Friday, June 26, 2020,
 and will remain in effect until July 17, 2020, unless otherwise repealed, replaced, or rescinded. We will be adopting the Governor's Order together with his 
FAQs
 specific to EO 147. If you have any questions about this new order, please reach out to our Ready Team Monday-Friday between 8 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Call  (
828) 419-0095
 or email 
ready@buncombecounty.org
. 


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18705


The Buncombe County Emergency Operations Congregate Care Ready Team consists of Health and Human Services and Emergency Services Personnel who can help to troubleshoot some of the more common challenges that Long Term Care Facilities (LTCFs) face in response to COVID-19. These challenges include procuring and properly using personal protective equipment (PPE), planning for isolation and quarantine of staff and residents, and obtaining testing supplies and the personnel and laboratory to perform testing. As the testing guidelines continue to expand and case counts grow in LTCFs, the Ready Team will offer a responsive and flexible approach to support these facilities.The attached fact sheet includes guidance to LTCFs. If you are a long term care facility or congregate care provider, please email 
congregatecare@buncombecounty.org
 to be added to the weekly phone call with local providers and public health. 


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18736


A face covering is a piece of material used to cover your nose and mouth and is worn to prevent the spread of germs and airborne pathogens like COVID-19. They work by filtering out and redirecting moisture droplets, catching any germs you are breathing out, and creating a barrier between your airways and potentially contaminated air. Wearing a face covering is a vital step of slowing the spread of COVID-19, especially when they are worn in addition to other 
every day preventative actions
 like 
physical distancing
, 
regularly washing your hands
, and staying home when you are sick.A face covering can be a bandana, folded shirt, fitted and hand-stiched, or medical-grade mask. Public Health experts recommend wearing a face covering anytime it is reasonably possible; essentially, anytime you leave your house and go into public. That means grocery stores and other retailers, parks, restaurants, and all other public spaces. Wearing a face covering is a proven way to reduce the spread of COVID-19.It is important to avoid touching your face covering while wearing it, 
always remove face coverings correctly
, and 
wash your hands
 after handling or touching a used face covering. For more information 
click here
 or 
watch this video
.Cloth face coverings should be washed and dried after each use.Click here
 for more information on how to properly wash and dry your cloth face covering. Wash your handsGrab earpieces and cover your mouth and nose with face covering, slipping or tying earpieces into place.If face covering is slightly out of position, readjust without touching the inside of your face covering.If your face covering has a wire nosepiece, clamp it into position for a snug fit around the bridge of your nose.Wash your handsUntie or unhook ear pieces and remove face coveringIf your face covering is re-usable, put it in the laundry. If it is not re-usable, throw it away.Wash your handsYou can include your face covering with your regular laundry.Use regular laundry detergent and the warmest appropriate water setting for the cloth used to make the face covering.Prepare a bleach solution by mixing:
	


5 tablespoons (1/3rd cup) household bleach per gallon of room temperature water or


4 teaspoons household bleach per quart of room temperature water



5 tablespoons (1/3rd cup) household bleach per gallon of room temperature water or4 teaspoons household bleach per quart of room temperature waterCheck the label to see if your bleach is intended for disinfection. Some bleach products, such as those designed for safe use on colored clothing, may not be suitable for disinfection. Ensure the bleach product is not past its expiration date. Never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other cleanser.Soak the face covering in the bleach solution for 5 minutes.Rinse thoroughly with cool or room temperature water.Use the highest heat setting and leave in the dryer until completely dry.Lay flat and allow to completely dry. If possible, place the cloth face covering in direct sunlight.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18637


Community COVID-19 Testing InformationCOVID-19 testing is available for people who think that they may have COVID-19. The 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self Checker
 can help you assess whether or not you need to be tested for COVID-19.If your primary care provider does not offer COVID-19 testing, they can refer you to an option that works for you. Please go online or call ahead to schedule a visit and to confirm the location of the testing site.Testing guidance for COVID-19 has expanded to encourage the following individuals to get tested for COVID-19 at one of the locations listed below or at a community testing site. Testing is suggested for the following: If you have private insurance, payment should be covered by your insurance company. If you are uninsured, please ask about the CARES Act which may cover the cost of the medical provider assessment and testing for COVID-19. Some providers offer charity care assistance or sliding scale options for payment. Check with your provider about these details.Contact your healthcare provider to see if testing is available at their clinic. 
If not, click here to find a clinic that offers testing. People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. Symptoms Include:Children have similar symptoms
 to adults and generally have mild illness.This list does not include all symptoms. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you.

 When to Seek Medical AttentionIf you have any of these emergency warning signs* for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately:Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: Notify the operator that you have, or think you might have, COVID-19. If possible, put on a cloth face covering before medical help arrives.Testing is available to everyone regardless of their race, income, gender, ethnicity, citizenship status, or religion. COVID-19 testing will not impact your ability to receive future public assistance benefits or public charge status.Permanent Buncombe County community-based testing sites are listed below. While everyone can get tested for COVID-19 at these sites, it is most important for those who are symptomatic or who have been in close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19 to get tested.People who do not live in Buncombe County or North Carolina should contact the Communicable Disease Hotline at (828) 250-5300 to find more information about testing prior to showing up at the community testing sites. These testing sites will be active on their respective days, from June 30th to September 6th. The sites are designed as drive-thru but people who walk up for will not be turned away. To prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 to older or high risk adults, it is important that people who work in long term care or congregate care settings get tested for COVID-19. Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles on Tuesdays and the Buncombe County Sports Park on Thursdays, from 9:30- 10:30 am.We ask that the public excercise patience while waiting to be tested. It is also important to wear a face covering and keep at least 6' between yourself and others if outside of your car. It takes about 7 days from the date the sample is submitted for testing to release the test results. However, this time frame may vary based of laboratory demand at a given time. Results will be released electronically on the LabCorp Mobile App. You should stay at home, away from others, until you have received your test results if you have COVID-19 symptoms or came into close-contact with someone who has tested positive. More information on how to access test results can be found 
here
. It is important to follow the steps outlined in the attached documents after your COVID-19 test. COVID-19 Testing Sites for Buncombe County Residents:  East Buncombe

	2217 US 70 Hwy., Swannanoa (Ingles Parking Lot)

	Every Tuesday, Beginning June 30th

	Testing will be from 10:30 am until 1:30 pmEarly testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles from 9:30- 10:30 am.South West Buncombe

	58 Apac Dr., Asheville (Buncombe County Sports Park)

	Every Thursday, beginning July 2nd

	Testing will be from 10:30 am until 1:30 pmEarly testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Sports Park from 9:30- 10:30 am.Central Buncombe

	AB Tech, Genevieve Circle, Asheville (Allied Health Parking Lot)

	Every Sunday, Beginning July 5th  

	Testing will be from 1:30 pm until 5:30 pmTesting sites are outdoors and will be canceled in the event of storms based on notification from the National Weather Service. Notice of cancellation will be made 1 hour in advance of opening on the day of testing. Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19Anyone (with or without symptoms) who is a close contact of a known positive caseAnyone (with or without symptoms) in the following groups who believes they may have been exposed to COVID-19:
	


Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)


Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


Historically marginalized populations


Healthcare workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)


Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain


People who attended mass gatherings (protests, marches, rallies, funerals, parties, cookouts, etc.), particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancing



Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)Historically marginalized populationsHealthcare workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintainPeople who attended mass gatherings (protests, marches, rallies, funerals, parties, cookouts, etc.), particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancingFever or chillsCoughShortness of breath or difficulty breathingFatigueMuscle or body achesHeadacheNew loss of taste or smellSore throatCongestion or runny noseNausea or vomitingDiarrheaTrouble breathingPersistent pain or pressure in the chestNew confusion or inability to arouseBluish lips or face

East Buncombe

	2217 US 70 Hwy., Swannanoa (Ingles Parking Lot)

	Every Tuesday, Beginning June 30th

	Testing will be from 10:30 am until 1:30 pm






Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles from 9:30- 10:30 am.







Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles from 9:30- 10:30 am.



South West Buncombe

	58 Apac Dr., Asheville (Buncombe County Sports Park)

	Every Thursday, beginning July 2nd

	Testing will be from 10:30 am until 1:30 pm






Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Sports Park from 9:30- 10:30 am.







Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Sports Park from 9:30- 10:30 am.



Central Buncombe

	AB Tech, Genevieve Circle, Asheville (Allied Health Parking Lot)

	Every Sunday, Beginning July 5th  

	Testing will be from 1:30 pm until 5:30 pm




Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18543


Click 
here
 for the Spanish version.The next Community Update will be on Buncombe County Government’s Facebook 
BuncombeGov
 page via Facebook Live on Thursday, July 9, 2020, at 2 p.m. Simultaneous Spanish interpretation will be available on the Buncombe Health and Human Services Facebook page.Key Takeaways for July 9, 2020Updated Case Count for July 9, 2020777 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in BC residentsFrom Buncombe County Sheriff Quentin MillerFrom BC Interim Public Health Director Dr. Jennifer MullendoreMission Health System Chief Medical Officer Dr. William HathawayCaptain Joe Silberman with Asheville Police DepartmentKey Takeaways July 2, 2020Community Update June 25, 2020Key Takeaways June 25, 2020TestingBuncombe County Public Health is aware of over 15,500 COVID-19 tests performed on residents of Buncombe County and staff who work in LTCFs in Buncombe County since the start of this pandemic response. 



Testing is available for those who have symptoms of COVID-19, as well as those who are without symptoms but have had close contact with someone known to have COVID-19, or those who may have been exposed to COVID-19 as a result of their occupation or activities.



If your healthcare provider does not offer testing, contact one of the local urgent cares or clinics offering testing. 
Click here to find testing site locations.Designated times for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles on Tuesdays and the Buncombe County Sports Park on Thursdays, from 9:30- 10:30 am.

East Buncombe at 2217 US 70 Hwy., Swannanoa (Ingles Parking Lot)  Every Tuesday, Beginning June 30Testing for the general public will be from 10:30am until 1:30pmThere is no out-of-pocket cost for the testing at the community testing sites, but we do ask that those with health insurance, including Medicaid or Medicare, bring their insurance card with them.Face CoveringsThe best thing we can all do to get our economy and schools back open is to wear a face covering when you are out and about. If you must go out, don’t go into large crowds. Keep distance of 6 feet or more between yourself and others.ReopeningExecutive Order No 147 will go into effect this Friday at 5 pm.  Buncombe County will be fully aligning with Executive order No 147.

This new order extends Phase 2 of Reopening for 3 more weeks (until July 17), this means, that for the most part, things for the next 3 weeks will look just as they have for the last 5 weeks under Executive Order No 141 (Phase 2).

One important change.  As part of Executive Order No 147, Governor Cooper has mandated the use of face coverings statewide.

This means that people are now required to wear face coverings in public spaces, whether inside or outside, when physical distancing of 6ft is not possible.  This requirement is applicable, but not limited to:If you are outside by yourself or with your immediate family you do not need a face covering, but if you will be passing within 6 ft of others when outside in public you are required to wear a face covering.Exceptions for this face covering mandate:A face covering does not need to be worn by a worker, customer, or patron who meets one of the following exceptions:If someone claims an exception, No proof nor documentation is required but the business or vendor can determine how to best manage service delivery for that client.Citations related to this Order can be written to businesses or organizations that fail to enforce the requirement to wear face coverings.Law enforcement personnel cannot criminally enforce the face covering requirements of this Order against individual workers, customers, or patrons. However, if a business or organization denies entry to a customer or client and they refuse to leave, Law Enforcement may enforce trespassing laws against that person. Community Update, Monday June 22, 2020As of 8 pm on June 22, 2020, there have been 504 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents. 105 of these individuals are currently in isolation.Community spread of COVID-19 is occurring in our county. Cases spread through our community and households after interactions with coworkers; gatherings with family, friends and others; and in many cases, without any certain source of exposure. A majority of cases are occurring in 25-49 year olds.Over 1,050 people have been tested at the community testing sites so far. At these sites, 28 people have tested positive for COVID-19. Many people are either symptomatic or close contacts to someone with a confirmed case of COVID-19. Please use the self-checker to assess your symptoms and to be connected to testing.COVID-19 testing sites for next week will be announced soon.Contact tracing is underway to notify close contacts of their exposure to someone with COVID-19. Individuals identified as close contacts will get a phone call from their local health department or NC OUTREACH (844-628-7223).Interim Public Health Director, Dr. Jennifer Mullendore, urges the community to stay vigilant, saying, “Every contact counts and we must do the hard work now if we don’t want this situation to get worse. If you must go out in public, practice the 3 W’s. Wear a face covering when you are out in public. Wait 6 feet apart from others outside your immediate household. Wash your hands frequently.”Key Takeaways June 18, 2020Long Term Care Facilities (LTCF):Testing Results and Recommendations for Testing:BCHHS Update June 15, 2020Overview:Testing Results and Recommendations for Testing:Key Takeaways For June 11, 2020Key Takeaways for June 8, 2020Key Takeaways: June 4, 2020Key Takeaways for June 1, 2020Key Takeaways for May 27, 2020Key Takeaways for May 22, 2020Key Takeaways for May 18, 2020Key Takeaways for May 14, 2020Key Takeaways for May 11, 2020Key Takeaways for May 7, 2020Key Takeaways for May 4, 2020Key Takeaways for April 30, 2020A U.S. military Veteran in his 80’s who was admitted to the Charles George VA Medical Center in Asheville has become the hospital’s first inpatient to pass away from COVID-19 complications. The veteran passed away April 9, 2020.“Our deepest condolences go out to the family and friends of the Veteran,” said Stephanie Young, Director of the Western North Carolina VA Health Care System. “The Western North Carolina VA Health Care System family is saddened to lose one of our nation’s heroes. We would like to extend our most heartfelt sympathy to the family and all whose lives have been touched by this Veteran.”Buncombe County Health and Human Services (BCHHS) reports this as the second Buncombe County resident to die from COVID-19 associated illness. To protect the privacy of the family, no further information about this patient will be released by BCHHS nor the Charles George VA Medical Center.“COVID-19 continues to take a toll on our community. We are sad to announce this second COVID-19 related death and our thoughts are with the family at this time. Unfortunately, we believe that this will not be the last time that we are confronted with this kind of information.” said Interim Public Health Director, Dr. Jennifer Mullendore.It remains important for people in Buncombe County to take the guidance from public health professionals seriously. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) people at high risk for severe medical consequences, including death are:Buncombe County and all of its municipalities continue to be under a Stay Home, Stay Safe order for all people in Buncombe County. It is imperative that we all comply with the directives of the order, which include no gatherings of any number of people outside of a single household or living unit for any reason and strict guidance to eliminate all non-essential travel, services, or exposure to people outside of your immediate family unit.At this time, there are a total of 37 lab-confirmed positive COVID-19 cases, including two deaths, in Buncombe County.




10 de abril de 2020. Actualización para la comunidadWatch the latest briefings from Buncombe County Public Health on the Coronavirus and preparedness efforts in Buncombe County. The community briefing takes place on Monday and Thursday.COVID-19 is a serious public health issueWearing a mask is an essential part of keeping people safe from COVID-19Wearing a mask is required to do business at any Buncombe County facility. Private businesses also have the right to require that patrons wear a face coveringIf an individual fails to comply after being asked by the business to put on a mask they can be asked to leave and must comply or face being charged with trespassing by the Sheriff’s Office The goal of law enforcement is to educate and inform The Sheriff’s Office will engage in discussion with businesses prior to issuing citationsHowever, the Sheriff’s Office will issue citations if need beWe are hopeful that by taking this approach we can get voluntary compliance Lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County are rising at an alarming rateYesterday, we received nearly 50 new positive lab results and so far today, another 42Almost all of these cases are in individuals who do not live or work in long-term care facilitiesOur Communicable Disease nurses continue to work long and hard to reach out to each of those individuals to provide guidance on isolation and to determine their close contacts in an effort to prevent further spread of the virusAs a result of the significant influx of cases and the way data must be manually entered to populate our county COVID-19 dashboard, there will be a fairly big lag in the case count shown thereAs of noon today, there have been 777 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents32 of these individuals have died as a result of their infection, including 27 residents of 4 local long-term care facilitiesWe continue to see a greater percentage of lab-confirmed COVID-19 cases in people between the ages of 18-49Yesterday, the county was informed of a new COVID-19 outbreak in another long-term care facility in the county.A COVID-19 outbreak in a long-term care facility is defined as 2 or more laboratory-confirmed cases.There have now been outbreaks at 9 long-term care facilities in Buncombe CountyPublic health considers a long-term care facility COVID-19 outbreak over when it has been 28 days with no evidence of continued spread of COVID-19 within the facilityTwo facilities have had their outbreaks come to an end, so we are now at 7 active outbreaks in long-term care facilities in the countyMore details on these outbreaks
 will be available on the state’s COVID website on Friday July 10, 2020 by 4 p.m.Buncombe County Public Health is aware of over 18,400 COVID-19 tests that have been performed on BC residents and staff who work in BC LTCFs in Buncombe CountyLooking at the percent of tests that are positive tells us whether lab-confirmed cases are increasing in comparison to the number of tests performedIn NC as a whole, 9% of COVID-19 tests performed are coming back positive, this percentage has been stable for the past several weeks.In Buncombe County, since last week, we have seen a greater percentage of tests come back positive for COVID-19,  indicating we are seeing more spread of the infection in our communityLast week, 2% of COVID tests on county residents came back positive for COVID, but now we are seeing 4% of tests come back positiveIf you meet any of the following criteria, we are recommending that you get tested for COVID-19:
	


Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19


Symptoms include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.


Close contacts of known positive cases, whether or not you have symptoms


People in the following groups who believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19, whether or not you have symptoms:


Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)


Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


Persons from historically marginalized populations (meaning Black and Indigenous People and People of Color)


Health care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)


Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain


People who attended mass gatherings of any type, particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancing



Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19Symptoms include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Close contacts of known positive cases, whether or not you have symptomsPeople in the following groups who believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19, whether or not you have symptoms:Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)Persons from historically marginalized populations (meaning Black and Indigenous People and People of Color)Health care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintainPeople who attended mass gatherings of any type, particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancingIf your healthcare provider does not offer testing, contact one of the 
local urgent cares or clinics
 offering testing.The state website has a 
“Find My Testing Place
” resource with up-to-date information about testing locations in NCBuncombe County Government and Western North Carolina Community Health Services (WNCCHS) will continue to offer COVID-19 testing at community-based sites throughout the County over the next 8 weeks.The next testing event will be on 
Sunday, July 12 from 1:30-5:30pm at A-B Tech
, off Genevieve Circle, in the Allied Health Building Parking LotNext week we will begin the 3rd round of testing at the 
permanent community test sitesDue to the recent increase in testing nationwide and supply chain issues at some labs, LabCorp and other large commercial labs have seen an increase in specimens being sent to them for testingAs a result, the time it is taking to get test results has increased to 5-8 daysAnyone with a positive test result (meaning they have COVID-19) will be contacted by a Public Health nursePeople who were seen at the community testing sites are able to get their results online through the LabCorp Patient portalPer LabCorp’s website, test results will be delivered to the portal as soon as they are availableIndividuals will need to register or sign into the portal at 
patient.labcorp.comRegistration requires entry of the last four digits of the person’s social security number or a valid Driver’s License number for identity verification via text message or emailMission Health (MH) has seen a rise in cases locallyAll should continue to practice 3 Ws so that our healthcare system is not overwhelmed27 patients are currently hospitalized with the virus8 of those are in Intensive Care on ventilatorsPreviously we were averaging 15-20Are seeing an increase in patients in the 18-49 age groupMH remains at Level 2 visitationContinue to provide non-Covid care at this timeMH has created an insurance assistance programFind information at 
missionhealth.orgSince March, APD has been strongly focused on education and advisement when it comes to enforcement of COVID-19 related ordersOnly in cases where persistent non-compliant behavior persists, have we considered the use of citations to gain complianceSince March, we have received more than 300 calls for service related to COVID-19 ordersOut of these calls, less than a handful resulted in citations, many resolved with communicationIn regards to the mask mandate citations may be written only to businesses or organizations that fail to enforce the requirement to wear face coveringsOperators of businesses and organizations are entitled to rely on their customers or patrons' statements about whether or not they are exempted from the face covering requirements and businesses and organizations do not violate the Order if they rely on such statementsVoluntary compliance and education are specifically encouraged under the executive order, however, if a citation is necessary, just like the enforcement of past orders, it would be a Class 2 misdemeanorIf a business or organization does not allow entry to a worker, customer, or patron because that person refuses to wear a face covering, and if that worker, customer, or patron enters the premises or refuses to leave the premises, the individual may be cited for trespassing or violating any other lawsNon-compliance can be reported to APD’S non-emergency number at 828-252-1110As of noon today, there have been 598 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.118 of these individuals are currently in isolation.Over 52% of those with lab-confirmed COVID-19 in our county are between the ages of 18-49.Across the country, there has been an increase in COVID-19 in young adults.Over the last 2 weeks in Buncombe County, we've seen a 6% increase in cases in 18-49 year olds compared to the prior 2 week period.While the illness often is less severe in younger people, some do get very sick and even die.Younger individuals also may be more likely to show no symptoms yet still spread the virus.Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been outbreaks at 8 long-term care facilities in Buncombe County.A COVID-19 outbreak in a long-term care facility is defined as 2 or more laboratory-confirmed cases. NCDHHS considers a long-term care facility COVID-19 outbreak over when it has been 28 days with no evidence of continued spread of COVID-19 within the facility. We are now at 7 active outbreaks in long-term care facilities in the county.A long term care facility in our county that has been heavily affected by COVID-19 informed our communicable disease staff that the Medical Director of the facility conducted a review of the medical records of the residents of their facility who had died during their COVID-19 outbreak. As a result of that review, the facility administration reported to us that they had incorrectly reported the deaths of 10 residents of their facility as COVID-related deaths.Our communicable disease staff is updating the numbers accordingly in both the county and state communicable disease data collection systems.Therefore, there will be a noticeable decrease in the number of COVID-19-associated deaths in Buncombe County reported on the county and state websites in the next several days.Based on this adjustment, the current # of COVID-19-associated deaths in Buncombe County residents is now at 30, 25 of whom were residents of long-term care facilities.This change will not be reflected in today’s congregate care facility outbreak report from NC DHHS, but should appear on next Tuesday’s report.Buncombe County Public Health is aware of over 17,000 COVID-19 tests that have been performed on residents of Buncombe County and staff who work in LTCFs in Buncombe County since the start of this pandemic response.Who should get tested for COVID-19? Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19
	


Symptoms include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.


Close contacts of known positive cases, whether or not they have symptoms



Symptoms include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Close contacts of known positive cases, whether or not they have symptomsIf your healthcare provider does not offer testing, contact one of the local urgent cares or clinics offering testing.Please see the
 testing article
 for more details on testing and who should get tested. You can also use the 
symptom checker
 found at www.buncombeready.org.At both the Swannanoa and Enka locations, testing will be offered to staff of our smaller congregate care facilities from 9:30- 10:30 am and then open to the general public from 10:30am until 1:30pm.This is a holiday weekend when we celebrate our country’s birth.In past years, that meant getting together at cookouts or to watch fireworks. This year is different and it must be different due to COVID-19.Wearing a mask or face covering is a simple but powerful action -- one of the most important actions each of us can take to gain control over this virus. Every contact counts -- continue to reduce your contact with others outside of your household to keep your risk of exposure lower.You have the ability to protect your friends, family, our community, our economy and our country by following these simple steps.As of noon today, there have been 523 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.92 individuals currently in isolation.51% have been between the ages of 18-49.While the illness often is less severe in younger people, some do get very sick and even die.Younger individuals also may be more likely to show no symptoms yet still spread the virus.There are now outbreaks at 7 long-term care facilities in the county. An outbreak is considered to be 2 or more cases in a facility.Sadly, 37 Buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19, including 32 residents of 3 long-term care facilities experiencing outbreaks.South West Buncombe at 58 Apac Dr., Asheville (Buncombe County Sports Park) Every Thursday, Beginning July 2. Testing for general public will be from 10:30am until 1:30pmCentral Buncombe at AB Tech, Genevieve Circle, Asheville (Allied Health Parking Lot) Every Sunday, Beginning July 5 Testing will be from 1:30pm until 5:30pmRetail businessRestaurantsPersonal care, grooming, and tattoo businessesChild care facilitiesState government employeesTransportationManufacturing, construction, agricultural settingsMeat and poultry processing plantsLong term care facilitiespersons with any medical or behavioral condition or disability (including, but not limited to, any person who has trouble breathing, or is otherwise unable to put on or remove the face covering without assistance);Is under eleven years of age;Is actively eating or drinking;Is strenuously exercising;Is seeking to communicate with someone who is hearing-impaired in a way that requires the mouth to be visible;Is giving a speech for a broadcast or to an audience;Is working at home or is in a personal vehicle;Is temporarily removing his or her face covering to secure government or medical services or for identification purposes;Would be at risk from wearing a face covering at work, as determined by local, state, or federal regulators or workplace safety guidelines;Has found that their face covering is impeding visibility to operate equipment or a vehicle; and/orIs a child whose parent, guardian, or responsible person has been unable to place the face covering safely on the child’s face.As of noon today, there have been 470 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.139 of these individuals are currently in isolation.
	


Community spread of COVID-19 is occurring in our county. Cases spread through our community and households after interactions with coworkers; trips with extended family and friends; attendance at church, funerals, and gatherings with friends; and in many cases, without any certain source of exposure.



Community spread of COVID-19 is occurring in our county. Cases spread through our community and households after interactions with coworkers; trips with extended family and friends; attendance at church, funerals, and gatherings with friends; and in many cases, without any certain source of exposure.A majority of cases are occurring in 25-49 year olds.When you must go out in public or gather with others, practice the three Ws.
	


Wear a face covering.


Wait six feet apart from others when out in public.


Wash your hands.



Wear a face covering.Wait six feet apart from others when out in public.Wash your hands.Every contact counts and we must do the hard work now if we don’t want this situation to get worseThere are now outbreaks at 6 nursing homes in the county.An outbreak is considered to be 2 or more lab-confirmed cases in a facility within 28 days.We are working with those facilities on ongoing testing to identify new cases in any residents or staff in an effort to prevent further spread of infection.Sadly, 36 Buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19, including 31 residents of 2 nursing homes that are experiencing outbreaks.Over 12,250 COVID-19 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residents.Today’s percent positive rate is 3.8%, meaning that 3.8% of tests performed on Buncombe County residents have come back showing infection with COVID-19. Our rates have been around 4% for the past several weeks.The positivity rate for NC as a whole is 9% and other states in the southeast US are also seeing positivity rates higher than the rest of the US, which has a rate of 6%.Over 900 people have been tested at the community testing sites.Last week’s community testing identified 10 individuals with COVID-19; we are still waiting on results of 13 tests.25 total individuals have tested positive at these testing sites.Earlier this week, 150 people were tested at AB Tech; results from those tests have not yet returned.Testing is available for:
	


Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19


Symptoms may include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.


Anyone (with or without symptoms) who is a close contact of a known positive case



Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19Symptoms may include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Anyone (with or without symptoms) who is a close contact of a known positive caseAnyone (with or without symptoms) in the following groups who believes they may have been exposed to COVID-19:
	


Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)


Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


Historically marginalized populations


Healthcare workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)


Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain


People who attended mass gatherings (protests, marches, rallies, funerals, parties, cookouts, etc.), particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancing



Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)Historically marginalized populationsHealthcare workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintainPeople who attended mass gatherings (protests, marches, rallies, funerals, parties, cookouts, etc.), particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancingIf you meet the above criteria, contact your healthcare provider to see if testing is available through them.If not, check BuncombeReady.org for a list of local sites that are offering testing.There is no out-of-pocket cost for the testing at the community testing sites, but we do ask that those with health insurance, including Medicaid or Medicare, bring their insurance card with them so that their insurance can be billed for the cost of the test.Language services are available at the community testing sites.Thank you to all who have volunteered, provided testing, and helped with coordination of the testing sites. Your care and compassion are what we need right now. There is no doubt that caring for others is what will get us successfully through this global pandemic.Next week, our testing efforts will be focused on residential facilities that house older, at-risk adults.Community testing will resume the following week at locations throughout the county. These sites will be more permanent in nature and will operate with expanded hours to serve the needs of everyone in our community.Next week we will announce the locations of the testing sites for the week of June 29.It is important that people answer the call when the Community Team reaches out.Individuals being contacted will get an initial text from the number 45394 or email from dhhs.nc.gov with follow-up phone calls from their local health department or NC OUTREACH (844-628-7223).We all need to assume that we could have it, even if we are without symptoms, and we need to assume that everyone around us could have it as well.Use the self-checker found at 
buncombeready.org
 to assess your symptoms and the need for testing.It takes each of us caring about not just ourselves, but others in our community to slow and stop the spread of this illness.As of 5 p.m. today, there have been 452 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.159 of these individuals are currently in isolation.There remain outbreaks at 5 nursing homes in the county. An outbreak is considered to be 2 or more cases in a facility.Sadly, 35 Buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19, including 30 residents of 2 nursing homes that are experiencing outbreaks.Community spread of COVID-19 is occurring and public health officials urge caution when out in public to continue to slow the spread of coronavirus.Over 11,688 COVID-19 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residents.A total of 751 people have been tested at the community testing sites held throughout the county over 4 weeks of testing.Test results from last week’s community testing sites include 9 lab-confirmed positive COVID-19 results and 27 test results still pending.COVID-19 symptoms may include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Testing is available for those who have symptoms of COVID-19, as well as those who are without symptoms but have had close contact with someone known to have COVID-19, or those who may have been exposed to COVID-19 as a result of their occupation or activities.
	


Anyone who has attended a mass gathering


Anyone who works as a front-line worker in a grocery store, gas station, restaurant, or child care center


Anyone who lives or works in a higher risk setting like a homeless shelter, food processing facility



Anyone who has attended a mass gatheringAnyone who works as a front-line worker in a grocery store, gas station, restaurant, or child care centerAnyone who lives or works in a higher risk setting like a homeless shelter, food processing facilityWe also are encouraging individuals in historically marginalized populations to get tested as these populations have been disproportionately impacted by COVID-19.If your healthcare provider does not offer testing, contact one of the local urgent cares or clinics offering testing, including Range Urgent Care, Mercy Urgent Care, MAHEC Family Health Center at Biltmore, Mission Virtual Health, FastMed and the CVS on Hendersonville Road.Community testing is available this week at the following locations:
	


Tuesday, June 16 will be a drive-through testing site at the main AB tech campus behind the Allied Health Building from 1-4pm.


Thursday, June 18 testing will be at the Grant Center at 285 Livingston St from 1-4 pm. There is not a lot of room for parking at this location so we want people to know that it is intended for walk-up testing. The queue for cars will be on Livingston Street.



Tuesday, June 16 will be a drive-through testing site at the main AB tech campus behind the Allied Health Building from 1-4pm.Thursday, June 18 testing will be at the Grant Center at 285 Livingston St from 1-4 pm. There is not a lot of room for parking at this location so we want people to know that it is intended for walk-up testing. The queue for cars will be on Livingston Street.There is no out-of-pocket cost for the testing at the community testing sites, but we do ask that those with health insurance, including Medicaid or Medicare, bring their insurance card with them so that their insurance can be billed for the cost of the test.Language services will be available at the community testing sites.Case Count: 418 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents144 of these individuals are currently in isolationFatalities: 34 buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19There are now outbreaks at 5 nursing homes within Buncombe County
	


An outbreak is considered 2 or more cases in a facility



An outbreak is considered 2 or more cases in a facilityGet tested for COVID-19 if you are experiencing symptoms, are a member of front line staff, are a member of a high risk group, have attended a mass gathering, or have been in close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19
	


If you have insurance, please bring your card with you to get tested


Language services are available at the Buncombe County community testing sites


Click here
 to learn more about testing in Buncombe County



If you have insurance, please bring your card with you to get testedLanguage services are available at the Buncombe County community testing sitesClick here
 to learn more about testing in Buncombe CountyContact tracers contact people that may have been exposed to COVID-19It is important that people answer the call when the contact tracers reach out. Individuals being contacted will get an initial text from the number 45394 or email from dhhs.nc.gov with follow-up phone calls from their local health department or NC OUTREACH (844-628-7223).As of June 8, there have been a total of 393 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents143 of these have been in residents/staff of long-term care facilities34 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents including 29 residents of long-term care facilitiesThere are currently four outbreaks (two or more cases) in long-term care facilitiesCommunities of color continue to be disproportionately affected by COVID-19 nationally and locallyThe state reported the first COVID-19 associated death of a child in North CarolinaAlmost 10,300 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residents440 of those at Buncombe's community test sitesMany have mild or no symptomsIf you have symptoms, or are a close contact of someone who has tested positive we want you to get testedClick 
here
 for the schedule of next week’s community testing sites next week that are primarily for walk-up trafficThese test sites will rotate throughout Buncombe County in the coming weeks to meet the needs of people with limited access to a healthcare provider who is testing for COVID-19, people who face financial barriers to obtain a test, or who have no direct healthcareThere will be no out-of-pocket costs for anyone that receives testing through these sitesVisit the 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker 
to check symptomsYou should get tested if you have attended a mass gathering, are a frontline worker (grocery store), or a nursing home workerThe most optimal time for testing after a potential exposure is six days2095 Buncombe residents have completed the self-checker tool7% have reported severe symptomsBuncombe County now has 22 contact tracers on staffContact tracers will never ask for bank or social security informationHealth information shared is confidentialYou may receive a phone call from 844-628-7223, text from 45394, or email from state contact tracers at dhhs.nc.gov.Please remember the 3 Ws when returning to public spaces to continue to slow the spread of COVID-19
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyCase Count
: 374 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.

	


~22% of positive cases in Buncombe County are in black, indigenous, and people of color who make up only 8.4% of our total population.


~25% of positive cases in Buncombe County identify as Hispanic or Latinx, who make up a total of 6.7% of our county’s population.



~22% of positive cases in Buncombe County are in black, indigenous, and people of color who make up only 8.4% of our total population.~25% of positive cases in Buncombe County identify as Hispanic or Latinx, who make up a total of 6.7% of our county’s population.Racism continues to be a threat to public health and is a public health crisis, a threat that can be measured and seen in the percentages listed above.Fatalities: 30 Buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19
	


25 were residents of Long Term Care Facilities



25 were residents of Long Term Care FacilitiesQuarantine orders are mandated to individuals who might have been exposed to COVID-19 and could infect others. An order to quarantine mandates that you stay home for 14 days while you monitor your symptoms. If you develop 
symptoms
 and are found to be positive, you will be issued an isolation order.Isolation orders are for individuals who are sick with COVID-19. An isolation order mandates that you should stay at home, in your own “sick room” or space until you have met the 
recovery criteria
, in order to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in Buncombe County.If you receive either of these orders, please take it seriously. COVID-19 is infecting and killing Buncombe residents and we need to work as a team to reduce the impact in our communities.We continue working to provide testing and support to long term care facilities. Unfortunately insurance providers are not covering cost of testing employeesIf you are sick or even have mild symptoms related to COVID-19, stay home.Employers are encouraged to take COVID-19 seriously by implementing public health guidance including mandating physical distancing for employees and clients, requiring face coverings be worn by all employees and clients, and making it convenient for all employees and clients to wash their hands or use hand sanitizer.Community Testing is available to Buncombe County residents. Click 
here
 for more information on testing near you.Remember to stay connected during this time. Check up on your friends and family but also remember to check in with yourself.Census funds help support the COVID-19 response effort and much more. Please do your part to secure funding for vital programs and services in Buncombe County by participating in the 
2020 Census
.Cases: 342 lab confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe CountyBuncombe County Fatalities: 29Today we observe a day of grief for the 100,000 people in the United States that have lost their lives to COVID-19.Public Health and partners continue to work with community and agency partners to provide testing services to facilities and their residents.We are offering three Buncombe County Testing opportunities this week. Click here to see our schedule.Thank you to Range Urgent Care for collaborating with our community to provide testing in Buncombe County.Racism is a threat to public health whether it is in the form of COVID-19 infection and death, rates of diabetes, infant and maternal mortality, or police brutality.It continues to be important to slow the spread of COVID-19. Here are some tips to reduce the spread:
	


If you choose to meet up with people outside your immediate household, do so outside.


Do not share food or drinks


Wear a face-covering and keep your hands clean


STAY HOME WHEN YOU ARE SICK



If you choose to meet up with people outside your immediate household, do so outside.Do not share food or drinksWear a face-covering and keep your hands cleanSTAY HOME WHEN YOU ARE SICKTo date, only six staff at mission hospital tested positive for COVID-19.The number of patients testing positive for COVID-19 has risen over the last 2 weeks from 6 to between 12 and 20 per day. Many of these patients are cared for in the ICU and several of them are on ventilators. While this is a significant increase, it is neither overwhelming nor unexpected. There are currently ample supports and resources to care for 3 times our current case load.Our goal continues to be to reduce the spread and impact of COVID-19. It is our shared responsibility to do everything we can save lives, including practicing the 3 Ws:
	


Wait 6 feet apart from other people


Wear a face covering in public spaces


Wash your hands frequently



Wait 6 feet apart from other peopleWear a face covering in public spacesWash your hands frequentlyThe next community update will be held on 6/4 at 2:30p.As of May 22, there have been a total of 279 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents119 of these have been in residents/staff of long-term care facilities20 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents including 15 residents of long-term care facilitiesThe majority of deaths have been in individuals over the age of 65There are currently four outbreaks (two or more cases) in long-term care facilitiesCommunities of color continue to be  disproportionately affected by COVID-19 nationally and locallyAlmost 7000 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residentsIf you have symptoms, or are a close contact of someone who has tested positive we want you to get testedClick 
here
 for the schedule of next week’s community testing sites next week that are primarily for walk-up trafficThese test sites will rotate throughout Buncombe County in the coming weeks to meet the needs of people with limited access to a healthcare provider who is testing for COVID-19, people who face financial barriers to obtain a test, or who have no direct healthcareThere will be no out-of-pocket costs for anyone that receives testing through these sitesVisit the 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker
 to check symptomsPlease remember the 3 Ws when returning to public spaces to continue to slow the spread of COVID-19
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyThe purpose of face coverings is to reduce your chance of transmitting the virus to othersMission Health (MH) had close to one dozen people hospitalized last week related to skilled nursing facilitiesMH became aware of a small group of staff who work closely together and identified 6 members of staff who tested positiveThey found no evidence of risk with patientsMH has tested remainder of staff on that unit: 48 additional tests have been done with 4 still pendingMH will continue to restrict visitation, and continue their mask policyMH is appreciative of the hard work of the employees of these facilities and their familiesMH has ample supplies to monitor and provide for the care of patients and staffBuncombe Courts are beginning to expand operations beginning June 1, and they will be following all necessary safety protocolsMany of the matters that were postponed including landlord/tenant matters will begin againCourts will continue to utilize remote technologies for processing cases and for those cases that require court appearances we will be strongly recommending the usage of masksThere may be a substantial backlog of cases and they will prioritized in the order of seriousness, age, and readiness for courtThe courts thank the public for their patienceChief Justice Beasley reiterates we must continue to provide justice through our courts while balancing safety for the public and employeesJury trials are suspended through the month of July. If you have been summoned for jury duty you will not have to serve in the months of June or July with the exception of the grand juryMarc Shimberg has been appointed COVID-19 coordinator for Buncombe courtsVisit 
nccourts.gov
 and click on Buncombe County for more informationClick 
here 
to see the statement from Buncombe DA Todd WilliamsThe DA’s office will prioritize domestic violence, driving while impaired, and class A1 misdemeanors for prosecutionIf you are charged with these crimes you must come to court, if you fail to come to court, they will ask judges to issue an order for your arrestVisit 
buncombeda.org
 if you have a question about a court date or call 259-3410 for assistanceThanks to all EMS workers during EMS appreciation weekAs of May 22, there have been a total of 216 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents, click here for the 
dashboard
 of cases7 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsCommunities of color continue to be  disproportionately affected by COVID-19 nationally and locallyOver 4300 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residentsIf you have symptoms, or are a close contact of someone who has tested positive we want you to get testedClick 
here
 for the schedule of next week’s community testing sites next week that are primarily for walk-up trafficThey test sites will rotate throughout Buncombe County in the coming weeks to meet the needs of people with limited access to a healthcare provider who is testing for COVID-19, people who face financial barriers to obtain a test, or who have no direct healthcareThere will be no out-of-pocket costs for anyone that receives testing through these sitesVisit the 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker
 to check symptomsRemember the 3 Ws when returning to public spaces to continue to slow the spread of COVID-19 as we move into Phase 2
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyPlease continue the practice of physical distancingThe purpose of face coverings is to reduce your chance of transmitting the virus to othersWearing face coverings in public is a sign of caring and compassionThe
 Board of Commissioners on May 21
, approved requiring the use of face coverings for indoor public facing businesses such as retail stores and restaurants, effective Tuesday, May 26 at 7 a.m.This will be for Asheville and unincorporated Buncombe County onlyVisit buncombeready.org for more information on the updated 
Safer at Home orderBuncombe County enters
 Phase 2
 at 5 p.m. on May 22We are adopting Gov. Cooper’s 
Executive Order 141
 and 
FAQ 
document with certain restrictionsWe can all work together to slow the spread of COVID-19 in our communityLet's be safe, smart, and take this step by stepLet's Talk Justice takes place on Tuesday, May 26 from 1-2 p.m.The next community update will take place on Wednesday, May 27 at 3 p.m. As of 1 p.m. May 18, there have been a total of 176 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents (
buncombecounty.org dashboard
 is in the process of being updated)5 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsOver 3700 tests have been done in Buncombe CountyWe now have COVID-19 outbreaks in 
four long-term care facilitiesThanks to Range Urgent Care, Buncombe County Emergency Services, Blue Ridge Health and LabCorp who have answered the call and stepped up to assist with testing at these facilities.Buncombe County has worked proactively with long-term care facilities when they identify one case in a resident or staff memberWhile state guidance recommends testing of all residents and staff, if possible, we are working with facilities and community partners to ensure all residents and staff in these facilities are testedWe are instructing those facilities to repeat testing within the following week and each week thereafter until no new cases are identifiedAs of the morning of May 18, about 1000 tests were conducted in long-term care facilitiesBy COB May 18, 2 facilities will have completed their second round of testingPublic Health, Emergency Services, and Asheville Fire Department are assisting facilities with testing, guidance, and to provide PPE if a need has been identifiedThe North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services issued updated guidance on who should be tested for COVID-19The new guidance recommends that clinicians test any patient in whom COVID-19 is suspected and ensures the following populations have access to testing, regardless of symptoms
	


Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19


Close contacts of known positive cases, regardless of symptoms 


Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)


Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


Persons who come from historically marginalized populations


Health care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)


Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain- and they should repeat testing often if they get a negative test result



Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19Close contacts of known positive cases, regardless of symptoms Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)Persons who come from historically marginalized populationsHealth care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain- and they should repeat testing often if they get a negative test resultLast week at the 2 community-based testing events approximately 100 individuals were tested. Western North Carolina Community Health Services will be contacting these individuals with their resultsOur community-based testing events are scheduled to continue this week and beyond. They are intended for walk-up testing and for people in these communitiesWe will notify the community of any postponements by 9 a.m. the day of the scheduled eventThe details of the testing sites are available at buncombeready.org
	


Pisgah View Community, Tuesday, May 19, 1-4 p.m.


Sandy Mush Community Center, Wednesday, May 20, 1-4 p.m.


Deaverview Community Center, Thursday, May 21, 1-4 p.m.



Pisgah View Community, Tuesday, May 19, 1-4 p.m.Sandy Mush Community Center, Wednesday, May 20, 1-4 p.m.Deaverview Community Center, Thursday, May 21, 1-4 p.m.Find more information on testing 
hereGovernor Cooper’s Executive Order 138, the Phase I Order, remains in effect through this Friday May 22 at 5 p.m.We expect, that later this week, the Governor’s office and the COVID-19 Task Force will start sharing details about the planned rollout of Phase 2General framework may include:
	


Lifting the Statewide Stay at Home Order


Encouraging vulnerable populations to Stay Home


Allowing a limited opening of restaurants, bars and other businesses that can follow physical distancing protocol to operate at a reduced capacity.


Allow gatherings at houses of worship and entertainment venues at a reduced capacity


Increase the number of people allowed at mass gatherings


Open public playgrounds


Continuing rigorous restrictions on nursing homes and other congregate living settings.



Lifting the Statewide Stay at Home OrderEncouraging vulnerable populations to Stay HomeAllowing a limited opening of restaurants, bars and other businesses that can follow physical distancing protocol to operate at a reduced capacity.Allow gatherings at houses of worship and entertainment venues at a reduced capacityIncrease the number of people allowed at mass gatheringsOpen public playgroundsContinuing rigorous restrictions on nursing homes and other congregate living settings.Public Health will make recommendations to County leadership as more details emergeWearing face coverings in a public setting is one of the best tools currently in our toolbox for minimizing the spread of COVID-19. Studies consistently show that roughly 50% of new cases are infected by people who themselves are not showing symptoms. This means that healthy people are infecting others, probably without ever knowing they are even sick.These non-fitted masks, bandanas, and head wraps are intended to protect others. They work as a barrier, to physically knock down droplets of saliva, and they are very effective.Many studies show that if just 80% of people wore a face covering when in public the transmission of COVID-19 could be halted. Without a treatment, the combination of face coverings and physical distancing are the best tools we have to fight this pandemic.Link to cases 
dashboardDespite facilities’ robust efforts to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 among staff and residents, outbreaks in long-term care facilities continue to occur throughout North Carolina and the United States.Cases associated with long term care facilities make up half of the cases of COVID-19 in North Carolina.To date, Buncombe County has been notified of lab confirmed cases of COVID-19 in 2 long-term care facilities within our county.Buncombe County Public Health is actively conducting contact tracing and coordinating with the facilities.Fire Marshals and Environmental Health Specialists jointly visited every long-term care facility in Buncombe County in early April to assess facilities prevention strategies and create a line of communication in the event of a COVID-19 outbreak.There are plans underway for the creation of a strike team that will visit all congregate care facilities in Buncombe County to ensure that administrators have the support and guidance they need.The strike team will consist of public health nurses and emergency services personnel, who will provide education on PPE protocols, review site plan layouts and plans for isolation and quarantine of suspected or positive cases in staff and residents.This team will also provide facilities with a list of COVID-19 testing providers, support with supplies, and will provide technical assistance for testing in the event that a staff member or resident becomes symptomatic.At this point, over 3,500 COVID-19 tests have been administered in Buncombe County.45.7 % of cases are in people between the ages of 25-49.There are still 4 COVID-19 associated deaths in Buncombe County. The numbers reported earlier in the week from Mission included deaths in people who were not residents of Buncombe County.In Buncombe County, 34.3 % of our cases are in the Hispanic population. This disproportionality is not to be taken lightly.As COVID-19 has highlighted health and social inequalities across the country existing prior to this pandemic, we have and will continue to conduct outreach to our Hispanic, African-American and under resourced communities to ensure that we are offering testing sites that meet the needs of our community.  The Buncombe County Emergency Operations Center’s Rapid Response & Recovery Equity Action Team has identified testing site locations based on an equity analysis reliant on relevant data and community input.Testing is available to both the insured and uninsured, with no out of pocket cost. The community testing sites are designed as walk-up sites and for those who are unable to get to an urgent care or primary care provider.If you have transportation, please reach out to MAHEC Family Health Center, Mercy Urgent Care, or Range Urgent Care to get tested for COVID-19.47 people were tested at the community testing site at Hillcrest on Tuesday.Next week, Western North Carolina Community Health Services will run COVID-19 Community Testing sites in these locations:
	


Pisgah View Community on Tuesday, May 19th -1-4pm


Sandy Mush Community Center on Wednesday, May 20th - 1-4pm


Deaverview Community on Thursday, May 21st - 1-4pm



Pisgah View Community on Tuesday, May 19th -1-4pmSandy Mush Community Center on Wednesday, May 20th - 1-4pmDeaverview Community on Thursday, May 21st - 1-4pmWe will be hosting testing sites ongoing in the coming weeks.There are enough testing supplies available for our community to be tested if they have symptoms of COVID-19.As of 1 p.m. May 11, there have been a total of 102 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents4 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsOver 3100 tests have been done in Buncombe CountyCommunities of color have been disproportionately affected by COVID-19 nationally and locally-34% of the positive cases in Buncombe County self-identify as LatinxIf you have symptoms, we want you to get testedThe community testing sites that start tomorrow are primarily for walk-up trafficThey test sites will rotate throughout Buncombe County in the coming weeks to meet the needs of people with limited access to a healthcare provider who is testing for COVID-19, people who face financial barriers to obtain a test, or who have no direct healthcareVisit the 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker 
to check symptomsRemember the 3 Ws
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyThere are now many more businesses open in the community, these businesses must comply with specific directions from the state as to how they are allowed to operatePeople should still stay at home as much as possible, but the variety of reasons people are allowed to leave their homes has expandedVisit buncombeready.org for more information on new 
Stay Safe-Stay HomeSee the 
Phase 1 transition chart
 hereThe purpose of face coverings is to reduce your chance of transmitting the virus to othersWearing face coverings in public is a sign of caring and compassionIndividual stores and businesses that have opened up for Phase 1 of operations have the right to require patrons to wear face coverings to enter their businessMission Health (MH) response remains robustMH has resumed what is termed as elective proceduresMH is on Level 3 visitor restriction- no visitors on floor of hospital except for certain circumstancesPlease seek emergency care if you experiencing a serious medical condition or need emergency careMH has had 34 patients who have received care for COVID-192 patients in care at this timeAs of 1 p.m. May 7, there have been a total of 87 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents4 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsMore information will be released tomorrow about additional community based testing sitesIf you have symptoms, we want you to get testedCall your healthcare provider, urgent care, or Buncombe County’s public health hotline at (828) 250-5300Once certain restrictions are lifted we should still
	


Limit nonessential travel


Practice physical distancing


Wear face coverings


Wash hands or use hand sanitizer



Limit nonessential travelPractice physical distancingWear face coveringsWash hands or use hand sanitizerBoard of Commissioners Chair Brownie Newman signed new declaration 
Stay Home Stay Safe Order- Phase 1 ReopeningPhase one of Buncombe’s reopening campaign is effective May 8, at 5 p.m.This order aligns with Governor Cooper’s Executive Order 138 with the sole exception of a continued restriction on leisure travel bookingAsheville City Mayor Esther Manheimer emphasized the 3 Ws
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyThank all to the first responders, nurses, and teachers in your lives. These essential public servants have been working around the clock to ensure the health and safety of our communities.The amended Stay Home-Stay Safe order reduces restrictions on travel, retail and business.Business that must remain closed:
	


Restaurants (open only for takeout)


Health Clubs


Beauty


Entertainment Facilities



Restaurants (open only for takeout)Health ClubsBeautyEntertainment FacilitiesMany retail businesses are allowed to open (at 50% capacity) as long as they:
	


Respect physical distancing guidelines by requiring patrons to shop and wait at least 6 feet apart.


Provide hand washing stations or hand sanitizer in store


Encourage patrons to wear face coverings



Respect physical distancing guidelines by requiring patrons to shop and wait at least 6 feet apart.Provide hand washing stations or hand sanitizer in storeEncourage patrons to wear face coveringsToday is Mental Health Awareness DayPractice Awareness- what does stress feel like in your body?GratitudeSeek ResourcesHope4NC Helpline: 1-855-587-3463As of 1 p.m. May 4, there have been a total of 
79 lab-confirmed cases
 of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents4 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsWe expect to see the count rise as testing increases and restrictions continue to relaxBuncombe County and NC State launched the 
COVID-19 Self Checker
 on April 30237 individuals have completed the self-checker since the launchCDC has updated symptom guidance to include: People with these symptoms or combinations of symptoms may have COVID-19:
	


Cough


Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing



CoughShortness of breath or difficulty breathingOr at least two of these symptoms:
	


Fever


Chills


Repeated shaking with chills


Muscle pain


Headache


Sore throat


New loss of taste or smell



FeverChillsRepeated shaking with chillsMuscle painHeadacheSore throatNew loss of taste or smellIf you have symptoms, we want you to get testedCall your healthcare provider, urgent care, or Buncombe County’s public health hotline at (828) 250-5300For employers who want to make sure their work environments are safe:
	


Are people are in close contact to one another- 6 feet for a period of 10 minutes or more?


Are there adequate handwashing stations?


Are employees wearing face coverings and physical distancing to the greatest extent possible?



Are people are in close contact to one another- 6 feet for a period of 10 minutes or more?Are there adequate handwashing stations?Are employees wearing face coverings and physical distancing to the greatest extent possible?Since COVID-19 spreads through close contact with others, we must take all necessary steps to reduce the opportunity for spreading the virus as much as possible:
	


Physical distancing – limit contact with others outside of your household


Handwashing for 20 seconds or more


Monitoring your symptoms daily


Wearing a face covering in public


Cleaning frequently touched surfaces with approved sanitizers



Physical distancing – limit contact with others outside of your householdHandwashing for 20 seconds or moreMonitoring your symptoms dailyWearing a face covering in publicCleaning frequently touched surfaces with approved sanitizersNC Governor moving forward with plans to implement Phase 1 of reopening on May 9Reopening will be slow and deliberate, if cases escalate quickly we stand ready to re-implement more restrictive measuresAs of 1 p.m. April 30, there have been a total of 68 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents4 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsBuncombe County has launched a new COVID-19 
data dashboardOver 2600 tests have been conducted by providers and MHBuncombe County and NC State have launched the 
COVID-19 Self CheckerSome 
providers and urgent cares
 have adapted their processes to allow safe testingBC is working to draft plans to get testing to under resourced areas of our communityCDC has updated symptom guidance to include: People with these symptoms or combinations of symptoms may have COVID-19:
	


Cough


Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing



CoughShortness of breath or difficulty breathingOr at least two of these symptoms:
	


Fever


Chills


Repeated shaking with chills


Muscle pain


Headache


Sore throat


New loss of taste or smell



FeverChillsRepeated shaking with chillsMuscle painHeadacheSore throatNew loss of taste or smellIf you have symptoms, use the COVID-19 Self Checker or call your healthcare provider, urgent care, or Buncombe County’s public health hotline at (828) 250-5300Board of Commissioners Chairman Newman announced changes to the 
Stay Home Stay Safe
 order effective 6 a.m., May 1, 2020The most substantial change is to the mass gathering number. It has changed from 0 to 10Mission Health has seen between 20-25 COVID-19 patientsMission Health states they have adequate resources to care for patients and will be expanding and ramping up some imaging and surgery servicesMission Health still has Level 2 restrictions in placeDr. Hathaway reassures the community that hospitals are a safe place to goAs of 1 p.m., April 27, there have been a total of 54 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsOver 2200 tests have been conducted by providers and Mission HealthThe number of tests done last week was about 7% higher than the previous weekSome providers and urgent cares have adapted their processes to allow safe testingBC is working to draft plans to get testing to under-resourced areas of our communityIf you have symptoms, call your healthcare provider, urgent care, or Buncombe County’s public health hotline at (828) 250-5300BC Public Health is currently contact tracing for every case of COVID-19 in our communityWe have 7 current staff and are training additional staffNCDHHS is also working to increase contact tracing capacity statewidePlease continue to follow guidance-stay home when you can, wear a cloth face mask when you go out, wash your handsWe are still finalizing details about self-checker tool and will push out soonAs we draft our framework for re-opening, it is our goal to align with the Governor’s planThe county does not collect or interpret cell phone dataPlease remember to fill out your census so our schools and emergency services can get the resources they needAs of 1 p.m. April 23, there have been a total of 51 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents2,170 tests have been conducted by providers and Mission HealthRange and Mercy Urgent Care are working to increase testingWe are working with our local federally qualified health centers to see how they can help us get testing out to under-resourced parts of our communityWe have put out a request to our local hospital systems to see how they can increase testing in the communityPublic health experts believe that we will still be dealing with COVID-19 in the Fall and into next yearWe will have a successful response if we can test, trace contacts, and examine the trendsPublic Health continues to develop a comprehensive strategy to slowly open our community and economy while keeping our community as safe as possibleWe will have a draft proposal for leadership to review early next weekThe process will be deliberately slow and gradualGovernor Cooper has outlined a roadmap to reopening
	


More testing


Increase capacity for contact tracing


Consistent downward trends



More testingIncrease capacity for contact tracingConsistent downward trendsLocally a tool is in development to assist with identifying trends and connecting people to testingMore information and details will be released on MondayAs of 1 p.m. April 20, there have been a total of 48 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents1900 tests have been done by providers in Buncombe County-this does not include testing not reported to BC Public Health that came back negative or any rapid test results that were negative such as Mission Health’s labBC Public Health testing priority continues to be for high-risk groups such as those living in congregate living facilities, first responders, and healthcare providersNCDHHS has revised guidance to providers to encourage testing of individuals who the provider suspects having COVID-19BC Public Health will continue conversations with providers to explore options for providers to get more access to testingRole of Public Health continues to be surveillance and contact tracingCity of Asheville and Skyland Fire Department in coordination with BC Emergency Services have established Quick Response Teams ( QRTs) that consist of firefighters that have advanced emergency medical trainingQRTs can respond to non, life-threatening medical emergencies in our communityThe goal of QRT program is to lower the burden on our healthcare systemThe safety and health of our first responders is a top priorityBC Emergency Services received a large supply of PPE last week from NC Emergency Management and today from Dogwood Health TrustThese PPE additions mean a high level of confidence that our first responders will be protected and that the rate of use will not exceed supplyBuncombe County is working to develop an adaptive response to slowly ease restrictions and reopen our community based on data and lead indicatorsThe community must be prepared to close down quickly if there is a surge in casesWe will follow and assess NC Governor’s intentions and plans to evaluate what is right for our communityAs of 1 p.m. April 16, there have been a total of 43 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents44% of these individuals have been 25-49 years of ageThere has been 3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsCounty is looking at testing, tracking, and trendsMoving to increasing the availability of testing for COVID-19 in our communityBCHHS has identified and will be training additional staff to support additional contact tracing as we expect to identify more cases when testing is increasedData and trends that the state and our county will be following include the number of new positive cases, numbers of people in the hospital for COVID-19 illness, numbers of deaths, as well as available supply of personal protective equipment and hospital capacityIf you are sick with symptoms of COVID-19, please contact your primary care provider or a local urgent care. If you don’t have a primary care provider, you can call (828) 250-5300 to speak with a nurse who can assess your need to be testedPlease continue to wash your hands, do not touch your face, safely wear a face covering when you go out in public if physical distancing is not possibleThe EOC has been activated for 34 daysRepurposed County employees have volunteered to attend 40 hours of EMS medical and operations training through A-B Tech’s EMS workforce trainingPandemic planning is in place for Detention Center and vulnerable population outbreaksState Medical Assistance Team has helped to set up alternate care facility at A-B Tech Nursing Care simulation lab if neededWork is being done with partner agencies to develop a rapid medical volunteer credentialing process if neededFor non-medical volunteers visit 
handsonasheville.orgAs of 2 p.m. on April 13 there have been a total of 38 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents34 of these individuals have recovered from their illness and been released from isolationThere now have been 3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsA survey tool is in development that can give us a better idea of the number of people experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 in Buncombe CountyThe Governor’s most recent Executive Order means you might see some changes at essential retail establishmentsCity of Asheville Fire Marshals are visiting essential retailers today and over the next few days to assist them in determining and posting these new Emergency Maximum Occupancy numbersCheck websites or call ahead to ensure you aren’t encroaching on special hours for vulnerable populationsYou may also see plastic shields at cash registers, or shopping lanes marked for one-way routing through the store.We ask everyone to be patient with each other and staff as we navigate these challenging times together. Respect everyone’s space, try to understand and share the feelings of others, and be kind.People 65 years of age or older People of any age who have a high-risk condition that includes: chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthmaheart disease with complications weakened immune system severe obesity - body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher other underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled, such as diabetes, kidney failure or liver diseasepregnancy - pregnant women should be followed closely by their healthcare providers since they are known to be at risk for severe viral illness.Updated Case Count as of noon, 37 lab confirmed positive cases in Buncombe County residentsOne Buncombe Fund
 has reached nearly $950K, funds are still neededFor Stay Home, Stay Safe questions contact the Ready Team at (828) 419-0095, 
ready@buncombecounty.org
, or call 211Harrah’s Cherokee Center is now serving as a 
shelter for vulnerable populationsStay Home-Stay Safe FAQs-
	


Greenways and Parks: Outdoor activity is considered essential and is encouraged, both for exercise and mental health purposes. But you still have to abide by physical distancing and mass gathering orders. That means no group activities, no carpooling with people outside your immediate household, and keeping 6ft distannce from others. Please observe and adhere to any and all park closures.  Some parks across the city and county are closed due to specific health and safety concerns.


Drive-in Services: Religious groups may now conduct drive-in or parking lot services, this previous restriction was relaxed as of this morning when the new order went into effect, however the leaders of these services are responsible for ensuring that their congregants stay inside of their vehicles for the duration of the time spent on the premises and observe the following guidance:


Have only individuals from a single household in each vehicle (i.e., no carpooling, use of church buses, no children going from car to car, etc.)


Vehicles should be parked 6 feet or more from each other


Do not pass anything between vehicles (e.g., communion, offering plates, money, notes, etc.)


No physical contact- including handshakes, hugs, or kissing



Greenways and Parks: Outdoor activity is considered essential and is encouraged, both for exercise and mental health purposes. But you still have to abide by physical distancing and mass gathering orders. That means no group activities, no carpooling with people outside your immediate household, and keeping 6ft distannce from others. Please observe and adhere to any and all park closures.  Some parks across the city and county are closed due to specific health and safety concerns.Drive-in Services: Religious groups may now conduct drive-in or parking lot services, this previous restriction was relaxed as of this morning when the new order went into effect, however the leaders of these services are responsible for ensuring that their congregants stay inside of their vehicles for the duration of the time spent on the premises and observe the following guidance:Have only individuals from a single household in each vehicle (i.e., no carpooling, use of church buses, no children going from car to car, etc.)Vehicles should be parked 6 feet or more from each otherDo not pass anything between vehicles (e.g., communion, offering plates, money, notes, etc.)No physical contact- including handshakes, hugs, or kissingSecond Homes, Summer Homes, Vacation Lodging: All Visitors traveling to Buncombe County from outside the state of North Carolina, upon arrival, must quarantine for 14 days at their place of residence BEFORE entering the community. This means you come into Buncombe County and you go straight to your residence. You don’t go to the grocery store, you don’t go to essential retail.  So, you need to have support in place before you arrive to facilitate this quarantine. You need to have a plan for how you will get food and essentials without entering the community.This mandate is posted at the Airport and being announced as flights come in, It has also been passed to our local hotels and homestay networks via Explore Asheville.One point of clarification, this visitor mandate DOES NOT apply to travelers coming to the County on essential business.Updated Case Count as of noon, 37 lab confirmed positive cases in Buncombe County residentsNew select characteristics data is 
availableBuncombe County Board of Commissioners Chairman Newman signed a new 
Stay Safe, Stay Home
 orderFor questions contact the Ready Team at (828) 419-0095, 
ready@buncombecounty.org
, or call 211Updated case count as of noon, 33 Buncombe County residents test positiveCounty's current Stay Safe, Stay Home declaration will expire on April 9 at 6 a.m. Work is being done to draft a new order that will align more closely with Governor Cooper’s Executive Order, however there will still be some differences. An update will take place on Wednesday, April 8, at 4 p.m.Justice Calvin Hill stated Buncombe County courts will follow extended guidance from Chief Justice Beasley. Learn more at 
nccourts.govVisit 
buncombeready.org
 and click on the Community Connect link to share information about your home with first respondersUpdated Case Count as of noon, 31 Buncombe County  residents test positiveNo new cases in visitors to Buncombe CountyFAQs on Buncombe County's Stay Safe-Stay Home declaration:
	


Is there a curfew? There is no curfew. The Stay Home-Stay Safe declaration is a standing declaration effective until Thursday April 9. Buncombe County is not taking any actions to disrupt transit or roads- we are only asking people to limit their travel to essential travel only. At this time essential personnel and businesses do not need any credential or pass to be on the roads. 


What about in person auto sales? What can be done about enforcing this? This is an area is which our local orders are more restrictive than the Governor’s. In-person auto sales are nonessential until April 9. Auto dealerships can show and sell vehicles virtually, and they may close and complete paperwork in process as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidance. Auto repair and maintenance are essential services. If a dealership has a maintenance and service line on site, that line of operations may continue to operate.


How are we enforcing? Law enforcement response to violations of the statute are complaint driven. We do ask that anyone reporting a violation of the local statue do so on NON emergency lines. Please don't call  911 for these purposes. Law enforcement will enforce the order through education, dialogue, and seeking voluntary cooperation from all residents and businesses. If voluntary cooperation is not achieved, Buncombe County Law Enforcement is equipped to enforce these restrictions through citations or misdemeanor charges.


What about grocery stores that are not taking measures to ensure social distancing? Grocery stores and any form of food and nutrition delivery are considered essential. We are continuing to reach out to grocery stores with our latest guidance and recommendations. We have encouraged them to consider limiting the amount of people allowed in their stores at once as well as to mark out 6 foot intervals when people are waiting to check out.


How are we enforcing Airbnb stays? Over the last few weeks we have had many calls with local business groups, to include AIR, Land of Sky, the Chamber of Commerce, and Explore Asheville to push guidance and answer questions. Among those groups that we’ve been in communication with is the Asheville Homestay Network, which represents a large number of Airbnb and VRBOs in the area. We are currently working with them to clarify and ensure our guidance on short-term rentals under our local Stay Home-Stay Safe declaration.


Despite lock-down measures, cases elsewhere have been surging through assisted-care or nursing homes. What more is being done to check in with these facilities and prevent spread? We are  aware of the increased risk for these types of care facilities where the entire population falls into our high-risk category. For months we have been reaching out to them to pass the latest guidance and instruction from the CDC and Public Health. We have dispatched County Fire Marshals to all of these facilities to personally deliver documents and provide guidance. We constantly update our planning efforts for the quickest possible response to any indication of cases at one of these facilities.


What about my weekend plans? We know that the weather will be nice over the weekend, but please do not use this as a reason for close contact with anyone outside of your household. Do not go on a raft with 6 people who are not in your household, or load up in a truck and go mountain biking with several of your friends. Get some fresh air but don’t be lulled into a false sense of security. Please continue to maintain a distance of 6 feet between yourself and others, wash your hands, and try to reduce your exposure as much as possible.




 
 Is there a curfew? There is no curfew. The Stay Home-Stay Safe declaration is a standing declaration effective until Thursday April 9. Buncombe County is not taking any actions to disrupt transit or roads- we are only asking people to limit their travel to essential travel only. At this time essential personnel and businesses do not need any credential or pass to be on the roads. What about in person auto sales? What can be done about enforcing this? This is an area is which our local orders are more restrictive than the Governor’s. In-person auto sales are nonessential until April 9. Auto dealerships can show and sell vehicles virtually, and they may close and complete paperwork in process as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidance. Auto repair and maintenance are essential services. If a dealership has a maintenance and service line on site, that line of operations may continue to operate.How are we enforcing? Law enforcement response to violations of the statute are complaint driven. We do ask that anyone reporting a violation of the local statue do so on NON emergency lines. Please don't call  911 for these purposes. Law enforcement will enforce the order through education, dialogue, and seeking voluntary cooperation from all residents and businesses. If voluntary cooperation is not achieved, Buncombe County Law Enforcement is equipped to enforce these restrictions through citations or misdemeanor charges.What about grocery stores that are not taking measures to ensure social distancing? Grocery stores and any form of food and nutrition delivery are considered essential. We are continuing to reach out to grocery stores with our latest guidance and recommendations. We have encouraged them to consider limiting the amount of people allowed in their stores at once as well as to mark out 6 foot intervals when people are waiting to check out.How are we enforcing Airbnb stays? Over the last few weeks we have had many calls with local business groups, to include AIR, Land of Sky, the Chamber of Commerce, and Explore Asheville to push guidance and answer questions. Among those groups that we’ve been in communication with is the Asheville Homestay Network, which represents a large number of Airbnb and VRBOs in the area. We are currently working with them to clarify and ensure our guidance on short-term rentals under our local Stay Home-Stay Safe declaration.Despite lock-down measures, cases elsewhere have been surging through assisted-care or nursing homes. What more is being done to check in with these facilities and prevent spread? We are  aware of the increased risk for these types of care facilities where the entire population falls into our high-risk category. For months we have been reaching out to them to pass the latest guidance and instruction from the CDC and Public Health. We have dispatched County Fire Marshals to all of these facilities to personally deliver documents and provide guidance. We constantly update our planning efforts for the quickest possible response to any indication of cases at one of these facilities.What about my weekend plans? We know that the weather will be nice over the weekend, but please do not use this as a reason for close contact with anyone outside of your household. Do not go on a raft with 6 people who are not in your household, or load up in a truck and go mountain biking with several of your friends. Get some fresh air but don’t be lulled into a false sense of security. Please continue to maintain a distance of 6 feet between yourself and others, wash your hands, and try to reduce your exposure as much as possible.Updated Case Count as of noon, 21 Buncombe County  residents test positiveNo new cases in visitors to Buncombe County16 residents have recovered from COVID-19 and have been released from isolationFirst fatality on March 28BC Public Health continues to work proactively with facilities where a potential for positive cases is considered more worrisome due to potential to spread quickly, like long term care facilities, shelters for persons experiencing homelessness, and detention facilitiesFurther clarification on  differences between Gov. Cooper’s Mandate and BC Stay Safe-Stay Home mandate
	


Are auto sales essential? In person auto sales are nonessential until April 9. Auto dealerships can show and sell vehicles virtually, and they may close and complete paperwork in processing as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidance. Auto repair and maintenance are essential services. If an auto dealership has a maintenance and service line on site, that line of operations may continue to operate.


Is Realty essential? In person house showing is nonessential until April 9. Realtors can show and sell homes virtually.  They can also continue and complete any vital paperwork or legal processes to continue sales. In general, under the Minimum Business Operations clause, they can also send staff and contractors to houses to maintain and update their virtual inventory.


Is Lawn Care essential? Lawn Care may operate under the minimum business operations clause, this means minimal staffing and as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygienic requirements. These social distancing requirement include travel to and from a jobsite, on the jobsite, and to lunch and breaks on jobsites. We want to ensure that all Buncombe County residents, whether on essential business or not, maintain their distance at 6ft.


Is moving an essential function? Yes, moving is an essential function. If you haven’t yet scheduled your move, and you can delay it, that is recommended, but if not please ensure you are doing your very best to avoid close contact and sanitizing common-touch surfaces. If you are moving to another county or state, or you are moving to Buncombe from another jurisdiction- you need to quarantine yourselves for 2 weeks upon arrival at your new location.



Are auto sales essential? In person auto sales are nonessential until April 9. Auto dealerships can show and sell vehicles virtually, and they may close and complete paperwork in processing as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidance. Auto repair and maintenance are essential services. If an auto dealership has a maintenance and service line on site, that line of operations may continue to operate.Is Realty essential? In person house showing is nonessential until April 9. Realtors can show and sell homes virtually.  They can also continue and complete any vital paperwork or legal processes to continue sales. In general, under the Minimum Business Operations clause, they can also send staff and contractors to houses to maintain and update their virtual inventory.Is Lawn Care essential? Lawn Care may operate under the minimum business operations clause, this means minimal staffing and as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygienic requirements. These social distancing requirement include travel to and from a jobsite, on the jobsite, and to lunch and breaks on jobsites. We want to ensure that all Buncombe County residents, whether on essential business or not, maintain their distance at 6ft.Is moving an essential function? Yes, moving is an essential function. If you haven’t yet scheduled your move, and you can delay it, that is recommended, but if not please ensure you are doing your very best to avoid close contact and sanitizing common-touch surfaces. If you are moving to another county or state, or you are moving to Buncombe from another jurisdiction- you need to quarantine yourselves for 2 weeks upon arrival at your new location.Buncombe County, United Way, and Asheville Chamber have formed a partnership to match in-kind donations with community organization needs. Learn more at 
www.handsonasheville.orgUpdated Case Count as of noon, 17 Buncombe County  residents test positiveNo new cases in visitors to Buncombe County12 residents and all 5 visitors have recovered from COVID-19 and have been released from isolationFurther clarification on Stay Safe-Stay Home mandateEmergency Services looking at a regional effortAsheville City and Buncombe County Schools helping students with social and emotional skillsUpdate from MissionHealthOne Buncome Relief Fund is launched Updated Case Count as of noon, 14 Buncombe County  residents test positive5 cases in visitors to Buncombe County11 residents and all 5 visitors have recovered from COVID-19 and have been released from isolationPlease see the 
Supplemental Declaration
 titled Stay Safe-Stay Home to find out if your business is deemed essential or non-essential.Understand the intent of Stay Home-Stay Safe. The point is encourage social distancing to reduce the spread and impact of COVID-19. Updated case count at 2:30 p.m., 13 Buncombe County residents test positive5 cases in visitors to the CountyBoard of Commissioners Chairman Newman signs second 
Supplemental Declaration to Local State of Emergency
. This declaration directs all Buncombe County residents to “Stay Home – Stay Safe” and to limit movements outside of their homes that are not deemed essentialOne Buncombe COVID-19 Rapid Relief Fund set to launch Friday, more information to come.Updated case count at 2:30 p.m., 12 Buncombe County residents test positive.4 cases in visitors to the County.Confirmed evidence of community spread. Now is the time to stay home.Public Health continues to investigate models from around the globe and will move forward to add an additional supplement declaration with a Stay Home, Stay Safe Mandate to reduce opportunity for close contact during these next few weeks. Further information will be available Wednesday, March 25.Telemedicine options are available at missionhealth.orgInnovation and dynamic responses are also happening in our community, such as virtual town hall and special hours at some grocery stores for vulnerable populations.Further guidance for restaurants providing takeout will be posted by 5 p.m.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18772


Sesión Informativa sobre COVID-19                        HABLEMOS COVID-19                Prevención, Perspectivas y Realidades: COVID-19 y nuestras comunidades Latinxel 14 de julio de 1:00 - 2:00 p.m                   Únete a la conversación donde hablaremos sobre prevención, recursos locales, y el impacto de COVID-19 en nuestras comunidades Latinx. Estaremos escuchando sobre nuestra comunidad de trabajadores agrícolas aquí en el oeste de Carolina del Norte y conversaremos con individuos que ya se han hecho la prueba de COVID-19 y sus experiencias con el proceso. Esta conversación será completamente en español y ofreceremos interpretación al inglés.  Registrarse por adelantado:https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3bqdu0YwRteZbuJqvSYY7A Informational Session about COVID-19                            Prevention, Perspectives and Realities: COVID-19 and our Latinx communities July 14 1-2 p.mJoin the conversation as we discuss prevention, local resources, and the impact of COVID-19 amongst our Latinx communities. We’ll be hearing about our migrant farm worker community here in WNC and will also be talking to those who have gone through the COVID-19 testing process and their experiences. This conversation will be completely in Spanish and we will be offering English interpretation for listeners. Tune in to @buncombegov Facebook page to listen in English. Register in advance to participate at:https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3bqdu0YwRteZbuJqvSYY7A


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18653


As 
Stay Safe, Stay Smart Phase 2
, is extended Buncombe County Public Health has provided public health messaging and guidance for industry and local businesses to use in their operations. Please click the links below to download printable files.For more information, Buncombe County and the City of Asheville are operating the Ready Team call center. The Ready Team can assist with business and general questions about 
COVID-19
 and Buncombe County’s Stay Safe, Stay Smart Order. To ensure that there are options for Spanish, Russian, and multiple other languages, the Ready Team is working with United Way’s call center. The Ready Team call center operates Monday-Friday from 8 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Call 
(828) 419-0095
 or email 
ready@buncombecounty.org
. Need more resources? Click 
here
 for the Asheville Chamber of Commerce Smart Restart Toolkit 


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18592


We understand people in our community have many questions about COVID-19 and guidance specific to Buncombe County’s Stay Home, Stay Safe Declaration. To help address your questions, Buncombe County and the City of Asheville are operating the Ready Team call center. The Ready Team call center is an extension of the Emergency Operations Center and is focused on business and general questions about COVID-19 and can direct you to the best resources available to find answers. To ensure that there are options for Spanish, Russian, and multiple other languages, the Ready Team is working with the United Way’s 211 Call Center. 
Click here to link to the 211 Resource Guide
.The Ready Team call center operates Monday-Friday from 8 a.m.-5:30 p.m. It can be reached at 
(828) 419-0095
 or by email at 
ready@buncombecounty.org
.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18599


Will first responders know how many people are in your home in case of an emergency? Make sure they know how many kids, elderly, pets, and other critical information they might need when time is of the essence. Getting that valuable information to first responders is now easier for everyone in Buncombe County thanks to a new online platform.On behalf of all firefighters in Buncombe County and the City of Asheville, Asheville Fire Department Division Chief Dan Flinn announced the launch of Community Connect. “This saves lives. If we already know how many people we are looking for ahead of getting to a home, it makes our jobs safer and increases the chance of a better outcome,” said Flinn.Community Connect is an online platform that allows you to share an overview of your household. To share your vital household information with first responders, visit 
buncombeready.org
 and click 
Community Connect
. Your overview will inform first responders how many people are in your home (including pets), members of your household who have special needs or medical conditions, locations of bedrooms, where to shut off utilities, and other potentially life-saving information.  Start your profile at 
Community Connect
. 


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18682


This article contains guidance from Buncombe County Environmental Health on safety and best practices for lodging businesses during COVID-19. Click on the links below to jump to different sections of the video:Recommendations for Safer Practices While in OperationRequirements for Food Service in Lodging EstablishmentsNote: regularly disinfect high touch surfaces throughout the facility and commonly shared areas (examples: shuttles, railings, light switches, handles, and remote controls.) 
Based on CDC Guidance as of 3/18/20How to clean and disinfect:Clothing, towels, linens and other items that go in the laundryHand hygiene and other preventive measuresIf you have any other questions, you may contact Buncombe County Department of Health and Human Services Environmental Health via email at 
EHRequest@buncombecounty.org
 or by phone at 828-250-5016.  For information and real time updates on the COVID-19 response please visit 
Buncombecounty.org/bcready.
 Additional Guidance:  How to keep your employees safeGuidance if you have a guest who is sickFood service safetyCleaning and disinfecting surface guideHow to make your own disinfecting solutionLaundry services best practicesHandwashing guideDevelop written standard operating procedures to facilitate training.Advise guests during the check-in process to notify the front desk and ask for a manager if they become symptomatic during their stayGuests who become symptomatic should place a “Do Not Disturb,” sign on their door.Staff should not enter these rooms while they are occupied.Advise any guests or employees who are symptomatic to notify their medical provider (if available) or any local Urgent Care facility so they can be connected with resources within the community.Contact Buncombe County Environmental Health at 
EHRequest@buncombecounty.orgfor any questions regarding basic sanitation.  See attached contact information for local Environmental Health Staff.Buncombe County COVID-19 Self CheckerNo buffets or customer self-serve areas allowed at this time. Employees may serve guests food or offer prepackaged food in lieu of self-service areas or buffets.Employees who are serving food should not have direct contact with the guests (guests should not be able to touch their hands).  Food should be placed on a surface for the guest to then retrieve it in order to maintain social distancing guidelines.Practice the 3 W’s: Wash hands frequently, wait 6 feet apart and wear cloth masks as required.Surfaces
	


Wear disposable gloves when cleaning and disinfecting surfaces. Gloves should be discarded after each cleaning. If reusable gloves are used, those gloves should be dedicated for cleaning and disinfection of surfaces for COVID-19 and should not be used for other purposes. Consult the manufacturer’s instructions for cleaning and disinfection for products used. Clean hands (
https://www.cdc.gov/handwashing/when-how-handwashing.html
) immediately after gloves are removed.


If surfaces are dirty, they should be cleaned using a detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.


For disinfection, diluted household bleach solutions, alcohol solutions with at least 70% alcohol, and most common EPA-registered household disinfectants should be effective.
		


Diluted household bleach solutions can be used if appropriate for the surface. Follow manufacturer’s instructions for application and proper ventilation. Check to ensure the product is not past its expiration date. Never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other cleanser. Unexpired household bleach will be effective against coronaviruses when properly diluted. Minimum contact time of 1 minute for 1000ppm concentration for bleach is required in order to be effective.  Prepare a bleach solution by mixing:
			


5 tablespoons (1/3rd cup) bleach per gallon of water or


4 teaspoons bleach per quart of water






Products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens (list is available at 
https://www.epa.gov/pesticide-registration/list-n-disinfectants-use-against-sars-cov-2
) are expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products (e.g., concentration, application method and contact time, etc.).






For soft (porous) surfaces such as carpeted floors, rugs, and drapes, remove visible contamination, if present, and clean with appropriate cleaners indicated for use on these surfaces. After cleaning:


Launder items as appropriate in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. If possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely, or


Use products with the EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims (examples are available at 
https://www.americanchemistry.com/Novel-Coronavirus-Fighting-Products-List.pdf ) that are suitable for porous surfaces.



Wear disposable gloves when cleaning and disinfecting surfaces. Gloves should be discarded after each cleaning. If reusable gloves are used, those gloves should be dedicated for cleaning and disinfection of surfaces for COVID-19 and should not be used for other purposes. Consult the manufacturer’s instructions for cleaning and disinfection for products used. Clean hands (
https://www.cdc.gov/handwashing/when-how-handwashing.html
) immediately after gloves are removed.If surfaces are dirty, they should be cleaned using a detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.For disinfection, diluted household bleach solutions, alcohol solutions with at least 70% alcohol, and most common EPA-registered household disinfectants should be effective.
		


Diluted household bleach solutions can be used if appropriate for the surface. Follow manufacturer’s instructions for application and proper ventilation. Check to ensure the product is not past its expiration date. Never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other cleanser. Unexpired household bleach will be effective against coronaviruses when properly diluted. Minimum contact time of 1 minute for 1000ppm concentration for bleach is required in order to be effective.  Prepare a bleach solution by mixing:
			


5 tablespoons (1/3rd cup) bleach per gallon of water or


4 teaspoons bleach per quart of water






Products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens (list is available at 
https://www.epa.gov/pesticide-registration/list-n-disinfectants-use-against-sars-cov-2
) are expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products (e.g., concentration, application method and contact time, etc.).



Diluted household bleach solutions can be used if appropriate for the surface. Follow manufacturer’s instructions for application and proper ventilation. Check to ensure the product is not past its expiration date. Never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other cleanser. Unexpired household bleach will be effective against coronaviruses when properly diluted. Minimum contact time of 1 minute for 1000ppm concentration for bleach is required in order to be effective.  Prepare a bleach solution by mixing:
			


5 tablespoons (1/3rd cup) bleach per gallon of water or


4 teaspoons bleach per quart of water



5 tablespoons (1/3rd cup) bleach per gallon of water or4 teaspoons bleach per quart of waterProducts with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens (list is available at 
https://www.epa.gov/pesticide-registration/list-n-disinfectants-use-against-sars-cov-2
) are expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products (e.g., concentration, application method and contact time, etc.).For soft (porous) surfaces such as carpeted floors, rugs, and drapes, remove visible contamination, if present, and clean with appropriate cleaners indicated for use on these surfaces. After cleaning:Launder items as appropriate in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. If possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely, orUse products with the EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims (examples are available at 
https://www.americanchemistry.com/Novel-Coronavirus-Fighting-Products-List.pdf ) that are suitable for porous surfaces.Wear disposable gloves when handling dirty laundry from an ill person and then discard after each use. If using reusable gloves, those gloves should be dedicated for cleaning and disinfection of surfaces for COVID-19 and should not be used for other household purposes. Clean hands immediately after gloves are removed.
	


If no gloves are used when handling dirty laundry, be sure to wash hands afterwards.


If possible, do not shake dirty laundry. This will minimize the possibility of dispersing virus through the air.


Launder items as appropriate in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. If possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely. Dirty laundry from an ill person can be washed with other people’s items.


Clean and disinfect clothes hampers according to guidance above for surfaces. If possible, consider placing a bag liner that is either disposable (can be thrown away) or can be laundered.



If no gloves are used when handling dirty laundry, be sure to wash hands afterwards.If possible, do not shake dirty laundry. This will minimize the possibility of dispersing virus through the air.Launder items as appropriate in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. If possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely. Dirty laundry from an ill person can be washed with other people’s items.Clean and disinfect clothes hampers according to guidance above for surfaces. If possible, consider placing a bag liner that is either disposable (can be thrown away) or can be laundered.Employees should clean hands often, including immediately after removing gloves and after contact with an ill person, by washing hands with soap and water for 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available and hands are not visibly dirty, an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol may be used. However, if hands are visibly dirty, always wash hands with soap and water.Employees should follow normal preventive actions while at work and home including recommended hand hygiene and avoiding touching eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.
	


Additional key times to clean hands include:
		


After blowing one’s nose, coughing, or sneezing


After using the restroom


Before eating or preparing food


After contact with animals or pets


Before and after providing routine care for another person who needs assistance (e.g. a child)







Additional key times to clean hands include:
		


After blowing one’s nose, coughing, or sneezing


After using the restroom


Before eating or preparing food


After contact with animals or pets


Before and after providing routine care for another person who needs assistance (e.g. a child)



After blowing one’s nose, coughing, or sneezingAfter using the restroomBefore eating or preparing foodAfter contact with animals or petsBefore and after providing routine care for another person who needs assistance (e.g. a child)Guidance from state regarding housing for isolation and quarantine: 
https://files.nc.gov/ncdhhs/documents/files/covid-19/NC-Interim-Guidance-for-Hotels-Providing-Quarantine-Isolation-Housing.pdfHow to wash hands: (
https://www.cdc.gov/handwashing/when-how-handwashing.html
)EPA guide for disinfectant: 
https://www.epa.gov/pesticide-registration/list-n-disinfectants-use-against-sars-cov-2
)Guidance on disinfectant: (
https://www.americanchemistry.com/Novel-Coronavirus-Fighting-Products-List.pdf
)Stay at home: 
https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18601Self-checker: 
https://ncsu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_eqvzugkyrkxSzIhBCHHS Screening checklist 
https://www.buncombecounty.org/common/health/symptom-screening-checklist.pdfBCHHS Screening log 
https://www.buncombecounty.org/common/health/employee-screening-daily-log.pdf

	 


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18604


Spanish article below.Aired on May 8, 2020Learning about resources, keeping our community strong, and the real talk of COVID-19 in our community. These were the topics discussed on the recent program, “Bridging Culture & Health in the Midst of COVID-19,” a radio town hall recently hosted by WRES-LP 100.7FM in Asheville. Ample evidence shows that on the national level, the alarming rate of COVID-19 cases and deaths are disproportionate in black and brown communities. This can be avoided at the Buncombe County level if we take action now, we can limit exposure and reduce our vulnerabilities. Together, we have the power to reduce the disparate impacts of the pandemic in Buncombe County by mobilizing in collective action.On hand for the discussion were pillars for our community in health, education, community resources, and family support, providing essential, real information on the realities of COVID-19 in our community and the importance of our roles in keeping our friends and families safe.We encourage you to listen to the important topics of discussion, including:Resources: Transmitido en WRES-LP 100.7 FM en Asheville el jueves 8 de mayo de 2020Aprende sobre los recursos, como mantener a nuestra comunidad fuerte y la conversación de COVID-19 en nuestra comunidad. Estos fueron los temas discutidos en el programa reciente,"Bridging Culture & Health in the Midst of COVID-19", presentado por WRES-LP 100.7 FM en Asheville.Amplia evidencia muestra que, a nivel nacional, la tasa de casos y muertes de COVID-19 es alarmante y son desproporcionadamente en las comunidades negras y latinx. Esto se puede evitar a nivel del condado de Buncombe si tomamos medidas ahora, podemos limitar la exposición y reducir nuestras vulnerabilidades. Juntos, tenemos el poder de reducir los impactos de la pandemia en el condado de Buncombe mediante la movilización de acciones colectivas.Para la plática estuvieron disponibles pilares de nuestra comunidad en salud, educación, recursos comunitarios y apoyo familiar, proporcionando información esencial y real sobre las realidades de COVID-19 en nuestra comunidad y la importancia de nuestros roles para mantener seguros a nuestros amigos y familias.Lo alentamos a escuchar los temas importantes de la plática, que incluyen:Recursos:  Faith and spiritual connections in a COVID-19 world.Economic/financial resources for health.African American risk factors, mental health, and clinical access.Community norms and culture.Supporting youth, continuity in student learning.Local ordinances to support community, and limit exposure and vulnerability.To learn more about COVID-19, you can visit ncdhhs.gov.To get local, accurate information about COVID-19 in Buncombe County visit buncombeready.org.For community resources and assistance you can call 211.Fe y conexiones espirituales en un mundo de COVID-19.Recursos económicos / financieros para la salud.Factores de riesgo entre afroamericanos, salud mental y acceso clínico.Normas y cultura de la comunidad.Apoyo a la juventud, continuidad en el aprendizaje del alumno.Ordenanzas locales para apoyar a la comunidad y limitar la exposición y la vulnerabilidad.Para obtener más información sobre COVID-19, puede visitar ncdhhs.gov.Para obtener información local y precisa sobre COVID-19 en el condado de Buncombe, visite buncombeready.org.Para obtener recursos y asistencia de la comunidad, puede llamar al 211.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18667


This is the sixth article in a series where we look at the diverse methods our EOC is using to meet real needs related to the COVID-19 pandemic. You can find the previous installments below.Since news of the COVID-19 outbreak, Buncombe County officials have taken guidance from experts in the medical and scientific communities and treated this as a public health crisis. On March 12, Buncombe County proactively declared a state of emergency and put weeks’ worth of logistical planning into action by opening its emergency operations center (EOC). Since then, a collaboration of governments, nonprofits, school systems, and other stakeholders have been diligently and innovatively looking at ways to address myriad community needs stemming from COVID-19.Below are some of the resources our EOC has developed and ways you can learn more about those programs.Phasing in economic activity while monitoring COVID-19On May, 8, Buncombe County entered into its first phase of reopening. This decision was informed by our experts in the health and emergency services fields who understand we are balancing economic disruption and public safety. “We understand we have to make moves to reopen our community, but we can do it methodically and give ourselves the opportunity to catch early indications of COVID-19 surges or other issues,” explains Emergency Preparedness Director Fletcher Tove.Numerous voices from the EOC have weighed in on when and how to reopen, what metrics to keep an eye on as the disease continues to spread, and how to respond to a potential outbreak. Listening to feedback from the business community was an essential part of this process, and the EOC has had constant contact via weekly conference calls.  “There is still a very real possibility of COVID-19 overwhelming our health care system,” notes Tove. “Locally, we‘ve been proactive and tamped down on the initial surge. But, as we loosen restrictions, we know we will see more cases and the goal is controlling the rate of spread.” Buncombe County’s relatively low case count and slowed curve show favorable outbreak trends that give us cautious optimism to gradually ramp up economic activity.Of course, Buncombe County faces a unique challenge with its popularity as a nationally acclaimed tourist destination. EOC members discussed preventative measures to help mitigate a surge of cases from potentially contagious visitors. To that end, the EOC deemed it appropriate to keep restrictions on hotel rooms and short-term rentals to minimize people from outside Western North Carolina visiting and potentially acting as a catalyst for a COVID-19 outbreak. However, EOC members noted the low outbreak trends across our region and deemed it appropriate to allow residents in the nearly 9,000 square-mile span of the 828 area code to book overnight stays to help generate more spending in our local economy.As far as moving forward, the EOC remains cautiously optimistic and is very closely monitoring case counts and other important indicators of a potential increase in cases. “Governor Roy Cooper’s current phase one order is set to expire May 22, but we can’t take anything for granted. Governor Cooper and his team are watching statewide data and planning for the next phases, we don’t have specific details, but we are hard at work,” explains Tove. In the meantime, the EOC continues to partner with community organizations to host town hall sessions for impacted businesses to provide guidance and share ideas to further economic activity while safeguarding the health of our community.
For additional information and resources on Buncombe County’s phase one, click 
here
.Previous EOC in Action articlesBuncombe EOC in Action: A Look at Community-Based Responses to COVID-19Buncombe EOC in Action: Hospital Surge Capacity, Interactive Food Assistance MapBuncombe EOC In Action: Mobile Morgues, Resources for our Homeless PopulationBuncombe EOC in Action: Quick Response Teams Offer Medical Help, Community ResourcesBuncombe EOC in Action: Domestic Violence Victim Housing, Response Plan


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18762


Our local communities, state, and nation are all anxious to reopen, while still doing everything they can to keep their residents and visitors safe. As travel picks up, it is important to have up-to-date information about local restrictions and travel requirements. This FAQ offers guidance about traveling within Buncombe County, between counties in North Carolina, and from state to state.Is travel encouraged?No. COVID-19 is still here and cases continue to increase. We are encouraging all residents to stay in their homes as much as possible, especially when sick, to reduce the impact of COVID-19 in our community.Do I have to wear a face covering in North Carolina?Yes. According to executive order 147, all North Carolinians and visitors to North Carolina are mandated to wear a face covering while in public spaces. Wearing a face covering is also required outside, when maintaining a distance of 6 feet between yourself and others is not possible. Exceptions to this rule include people with medical conditions that prevent covering the mouth and nose, children under 11, and people who are walking or exercising outside. Wearing a face covering is a simple, yet powerful way to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and keeps our residents and visitors safe. Click 
here
 to learn more about face coverings. Click 
here
 to learn more about the exceptions to this mandate.Can I travel from North Carolina to another state?Yes. All states are open to travelers but some states and counties may still have special requirement for visitors. Be sure to call the health department for the county in which you are visiting to make sure you understand their restrictions. You could also visit their website. If there is no special guidance, it is still important to wear a face covering, wash your hands, and practice physical distancing when out in public. If there is special guidance, make sure you fully understand it and plan ahead. Click 
here
 for general traveling tips and considerations during COVID-19.Do I have to quarantine during my visit to North Carolina?No. There is no national quarantine order at this time so inter-county and inter-state travel is allowed. Visitors to North Carolina and Buncombe County are required to wear a face covering in indoor and outdoor public spaces. We also ask that you follow all public health guidance by maintaining physical distancing, washing your hands regularly, and staying home if you are sick.How do I know what businesses are open?Call ahead to make sure the business you would like to visit is open to the public. While many businesses have decided to open up, many are still closed. Be sure to call ahead to confirm that they are open before making the trip.Still have questions? Click 
here
 to contact the Buncombe County Convention and Visitors Bureau.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18675


On March 12, Buncombe County declared a 
state of emergency
 in accordance with advice from scientific and medical experts about the potential danger of the COVID-19 pandemic. This decision was informed by our experts in the health and emergency services fields who understand we are balancing economic disruption and public safety. It was also an intentional strategy aimed at having our County in a strong position to begin transitioning to reopening efforts.Buncombe County entered Phase 2 of its reopening plan on May, 22. Below is a copy of our Phased Reopening Guidance document in English and Spanish. In it, you will find the County’s guiding principles to reopening, a timeline of responses to COVID-19, what subsequent phases could look like, and more. Thank you for your continued support and understanding as we balance economic recovery and public safety.  


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18633


Please see the below PDFs for Russian and Spanish translations.Help do your part to slow the spread of COVID-19 with Buncombe County’s new 
COVID-19 Self-Checker
. This automated system provides two valuable community assets: Clear guidance for anyone feeling symptomatic and data that will help Buncombe County determine when it’s safe to begin the first phases of reopening. “If you’re experiencing COVID like symptoms, or are concerned about a possible exposure, Self-Checker is the most convenient way for you to get guidance on what your next steps need to be and can connect you to individual level follow-up from healthcare professionals,” explains Public Health Emergency Preparedness Director Fletcher Tove. “The information we compile with this tool will also assist Public Health in anticipating surges on our healthcare systems and help coordinate our testing and contact tracing efforts as we work to reopen our community.”Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker is a quick, confidential, easy-to-use assessment tool you can use online or by phone to help determine if you have COVID-19 and how you can proceed to get medical care. This helps public health experts better understand how the virus is spreading in Buncombe County and allows medical experts and local leaders make the best possible, data-driven decisions to protect everyone.How Self-Checker* works:“The goal of the Self-Checker is to connect those in need to COVID-19 testing, offer additional support, follow up to ensure people are healthy and safe, and gather information about the spread of COVID-19 in our community,” notes Buncombe County Public Health Director Dr. Jennifer Mullendore. Public Health urges anyone with questions about whether they have COVID-19 to use Self-Checker. “This also allows us to conserve healthcare resources, protective equipment, and supplies while keeping people at home and away from others if they potentially have COVID-19,” says Dr. Mullendore.The information collected from Self-Checker will give public health officials daily and weekly reports that will be key to customizing how we respond locally. It will also provide crucial data to government officials as they continue to inform the public about the next steps for reopening Buncombe County.The Self-Checker is a partnership between Buncombe County and North Carolina State University. Additionally, partners in our community have helped to develop and test the Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker and their efforts ensure language accessibility and ease of use. The Self-Checker is available online in Spanish and Russian and can be taken over the phone in multiple languages via 211.*Buncombe County COVID-19 Self-Checker is not a comprehensive medical assessment. If you are experiencing severe symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pains or pressure, blue lips, or confusion, call 911. You must be 18 or older to use the Self-Checker.Head to 
buncombecounty.org/covid-19
, and click on the Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker banner.Share information about your health, any symptoms you are having, and your health history.If your results indicate you need testing, we will connect you with testing and other support to keep you as safe as possible. If you are symptomatic, we will continue to follow up with you every day for 7-10 days after completing the Self-Checker.You can also use Self-Checker by calling the Ready Team at (828) 419-0095, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5:30 p.m.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18618


This is the second in a series where we look at the diverse methods our EOC is using to meet real needs related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The first article “Buncombe EOC in Action: A Look at Community-Based Responses to COVID-19” can be found 
here
.Since news of the COVID-19 outbreak, Buncombe County officials have taken guidance from experts in the medical and scientific communities and treated this as a public health crisis. On March 12, Buncombe County proactively 
declared a state of emergency
 and put weeks’ worth of logistical planning into action by opening its emergency operations center (EOC). Since then, a collaboration of governments, nonprofits, school systems, and other stakeholders have been diligently and innovatively looking at ways to address myriad community needs stemming from COVID-19.Below are some of the resources our EOC has developed and ways you can learn more about those programs.Hospital surge capacity: Hoping for the best, planning for the worstOne of the EOC’s first priorities was to audit health care facility capacity and determine what peripheral support is available. “We thought about worst-case scenarios. If we have a spike in COVID-19 cases and hospitals are overrun, we need to have options,” says County Manager Avril Pinder. As a continued testament to the EOC’s collaborative spirit, A-B Tech approached us with the idea of transforming space in its Allied Health building to help relieve stress on hospitals.The Army Corp of Engineers helped design the space, the North Carolina Fire Marshal provided inspections, and it will be staffed by County EMS, regional health workers, and students from A-B Tech and other health care programs. Our team has been able to convert the 30-bed facility to have room for 50 patients and supplied it with essential medical supplies with assistance from the Mountain Area Healthcare Preparedness Coalition. This space will give priority to people whose caretakers become ill and need a safe place to stay.Thanks to all our partners for your eagerness and generosity to establish this potentially vital facility.Meal assistance: Addressing food accessibility during the COVID-19 pandemicFood insecurity is always an issue for our community, but the COVID-19 pandemic has compounded and expanded the problem. The EOC’s Food Workgroup acted quickly to determine food gaps, find distribution partners, and identify ways to connect residents to meals. “
United Way’s 211
 is leading the effort of publishing food resources including a website where residents can search feeding sites by location, day of the week, and type of service,” notes Community Development Specialist Rebecca Brothers.The County and City of Asheville also collaborated to create an 
interactive map
 where you can find nearby food sources. Brothers says the Food Workgroup couldn’t achieve its mission without the help of our school systems, MANNA Foodbank, and rural food pantries such as Sandy Mush Community Center Food Pantry.For more information about food assistance you can call 211 or check the below resources:Previous EOC in Action articlesInteractive food assistance mapBuncombe County area meal sitesSandy Mush Community Center Food Pantry

	 Buncombe EOC in Action: A Look at Community-Based Responses to COVID-19


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18771


Since the earliest days of the COVID-19 pandemic, the health and safety of our community has been Buncombe County’s highest priority. We are proud to share the Emergency Operations Center was recently recognized by the Asheville Area Chamber of Commerce with the Annual Excellence in Public Service Award presented by First Bank.This award recognizes an individual for outstanding contributions to the community through the involvement, service, or motivation to improve the quality of life for citizens of Buncombe County. This year, the Chamber chose to honor a group who has served our community with true excellence during this difficult time.“We have all sacrificed, innovated, acclimated, hoped, prayed, and banded together through this pandemic,” notes County Manager Avril Pinder. “I cannot express enough gratitude for our first responders, public health staff, County employees, and everyone else coordinating a community-driven response.”We are honored by this recognition and grateful to the following organizations for resources, insights, and dedication to our cause of preventing the spread of disease:Click 
here
 to view the video produced by the Chamber.Click 
here
 to read the EOC in Action series.City of AshevilleBiltmore ForestBlack MountainMontreatWeavervilleWoodfinBuncombe County Sheriff’s OfficeAsheville City SchoolsBuncombe County SchoolsBuncombe County Rescue SquadMission HealthCharles George VA Medical CenterHealth Care ProvidersUnited Way of Asheville and Buncombe CountyHearts with HandsBeloved AshevilleAsheville Area Chamber of CommerceDogwood Health TrustWNC Community Health ServicesMountain Area Health Education Center Buncombe County Unincorporated Fire Districts


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/covid-19/default.aspx





Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18543


Click 
here
 for the Spanish version.The next Community Update will be on Buncombe County Government’s Facebook 
BuncombeGov
 page via Facebook Live on Thursday, July 9, 2020, at 2 p.m. Simultaneous Spanish interpretation will be available on the Buncombe Health and Human Services Facebook page.Key Takeaways for July 9, 2020Updated Case Count for July 9, 2020777 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in BC residentsFrom Buncombe County Sheriff Quentin MillerFrom BC Interim Public Health Director Dr. Jennifer MullendoreMission Health System Chief Medical Officer Dr. William HathawayCaptain Joe Silberman with Asheville Police DepartmentKey Takeaways July 2, 2020Community Update June 25, 2020Key Takeaways June 25, 2020TestingBuncombe County Public Health is aware of over 15,500 COVID-19 tests performed on residents of Buncombe County and staff who work in LTCFs in Buncombe County since the start of this pandemic response. 



Testing is available for those who have symptoms of COVID-19, as well as those who are without symptoms but have had close contact with someone known to have COVID-19, or those who may have been exposed to COVID-19 as a result of their occupation or activities.



If your healthcare provider does not offer testing, contact one of the local urgent cares or clinics offering testing. 
Click here to find testing site locations.Designated times for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles on Tuesdays and the Buncombe County Sports Park on Thursdays, from 9:30- 10:30 am.

East Buncombe at 2217 US 70 Hwy., Swannanoa (Ingles Parking Lot)  Every Tuesday, Beginning June 30Testing for the general public will be from 10:30am until 1:30pmThere is no out-of-pocket cost for the testing at the community testing sites, but we do ask that those with health insurance, including Medicaid or Medicare, bring their insurance card with them.Face CoveringsThe best thing we can all do to get our economy and schools back open is to wear a face covering when you are out and about. If you must go out, don’t go into large crowds. Keep distance of 6 feet or more between yourself and others.ReopeningExecutive Order No 147 will go into effect this Friday at 5 pm.  Buncombe County will be fully aligning with Executive order No 147.

This new order extends Phase 2 of Reopening for 3 more weeks (until July 17), this means, that for the most part, things for the next 3 weeks will look just as they have for the last 5 weeks under Executive Order No 141 (Phase 2).

One important change.  As part of Executive Order No 147, Governor Cooper has mandated the use of face coverings statewide.

This means that people are now required to wear face coverings in public spaces, whether inside or outside, when physical distancing of 6ft is not possible.  This requirement is applicable, but not limited to:If you are outside by yourself or with your immediate family you do not need a face covering, but if you will be passing within 6 ft of others when outside in public you are required to wear a face covering.Exceptions for this face covering mandate:A face covering does not need to be worn by a worker, customer, or patron who meets one of the following exceptions:If someone claims an exception, No proof nor documentation is required but the business or vendor can determine how to best manage service delivery for that client.Citations related to this Order can be written to businesses or organizations that fail to enforce the requirement to wear face coverings.Law enforcement personnel cannot criminally enforce the face covering requirements of this Order against individual workers, customers, or patrons. However, if a business or organization denies entry to a customer or client and they refuse to leave, Law Enforcement may enforce trespassing laws against that person. Community Update, Monday June 22, 2020As of 8 pm on June 22, 2020, there have been 504 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents. 105 of these individuals are currently in isolation.Community spread of COVID-19 is occurring in our county. Cases spread through our community and households after interactions with coworkers; gatherings with family, friends and others; and in many cases, without any certain source of exposure. A majority of cases are occurring in 25-49 year olds.Over 1,050 people have been tested at the community testing sites so far. At these sites, 28 people have tested positive for COVID-19. Many people are either symptomatic or close contacts to someone with a confirmed case of COVID-19. Please use the self-checker to assess your symptoms and to be connected to testing.COVID-19 testing sites for next week will be announced soon.Contact tracing is underway to notify close contacts of their exposure to someone with COVID-19. Individuals identified as close contacts will get a phone call from their local health department or NC OUTREACH (844-628-7223).Interim Public Health Director, Dr. Jennifer Mullendore, urges the community to stay vigilant, saying, “Every contact counts and we must do the hard work now if we don’t want this situation to get worse. If you must go out in public, practice the 3 W’s. Wear a face covering when you are out in public. Wait 6 feet apart from others outside your immediate household. Wash your hands frequently.”Key Takeaways June 18, 2020Long Term Care Facilities (LTCF):Testing Results and Recommendations for Testing:BCHHS Update June 15, 2020Overview:Testing Results and Recommendations for Testing:Key Takeaways For June 11, 2020Key Takeaways for June 8, 2020Key Takeaways: June 4, 2020Key Takeaways for June 1, 2020Key Takeaways for May 27, 2020Key Takeaways for May 22, 2020Key Takeaways for May 18, 2020Key Takeaways for May 14, 2020Key Takeaways for May 11, 2020Key Takeaways for May 7, 2020Key Takeaways for May 4, 2020Key Takeaways for April 30, 2020A U.S. military Veteran in his 80’s who was admitted to the Charles George VA Medical Center in Asheville has become the hospital’s first inpatient to pass away from COVID-19 complications. The veteran passed away April 9, 2020.“Our deepest condolences go out to the family and friends of the Veteran,” said Stephanie Young, Director of the Western North Carolina VA Health Care System. “The Western North Carolina VA Health Care System family is saddened to lose one of our nation’s heroes. We would like to extend our most heartfelt sympathy to the family and all whose lives have been touched by this Veteran.”Buncombe County Health and Human Services (BCHHS) reports this as the second Buncombe County resident to die from COVID-19 associated illness. To protect the privacy of the family, no further information about this patient will be released by BCHHS nor the Charles George VA Medical Center.“COVID-19 continues to take a toll on our community. We are sad to announce this second COVID-19 related death and our thoughts are with the family at this time. Unfortunately, we believe that this will not be the last time that we are confronted with this kind of information.” said Interim Public Health Director, Dr. Jennifer Mullendore.It remains important for people in Buncombe County to take the guidance from public health professionals seriously. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) people at high risk for severe medical consequences, including death are:Buncombe County and all of its municipalities continue to be under a Stay Home, Stay Safe order for all people in Buncombe County. It is imperative that we all comply with the directives of the order, which include no gatherings of any number of people outside of a single household or living unit for any reason and strict guidance to eliminate all non-essential travel, services, or exposure to people outside of your immediate family unit.At this time, there are a total of 37 lab-confirmed positive COVID-19 cases, including two deaths, in Buncombe County.




10 de abril de 2020. Actualización para la comunidadWatch the latest briefings from Buncombe County Public Health on the Coronavirus and preparedness efforts in Buncombe County. The community briefing takes place on Monday and Thursday.COVID-19 is a serious public health issueWearing a mask is an essential part of keeping people safe from COVID-19Wearing a mask is required to do business at any Buncombe County facility. Private businesses also have the right to require that patrons wear a face coveringIf an individual fails to comply after being asked by the business to put on a mask they can be asked to leave and must comply or face being charged with trespassing by the Sheriff’s Office The goal of law enforcement is to educate and inform The Sheriff’s Office will engage in discussion with businesses prior to issuing citationsHowever, the Sheriff’s Office will issue citations if need beWe are hopeful that by taking this approach we can get voluntary compliance Lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County are rising at an alarming rateYesterday, we received nearly 50 new positive lab results and so far today, another 42Almost all of these cases are in individuals who do not live or work in long-term care facilitiesOur Communicable Disease nurses continue to work long and hard to reach out to each of those individuals to provide guidance on isolation and to determine their close contacts in an effort to prevent further spread of the virusAs a result of the significant influx of cases and the way data must be manually entered to populate our county COVID-19 dashboard, there will be a fairly big lag in the case count shown thereAs of noon today, there have been 777 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents32 of these individuals have died as a result of their infection, including 27 residents of 4 local long-term care facilitiesWe continue to see a greater percentage of lab-confirmed COVID-19 cases in people between the ages of 18-49Yesterday, the county was informed of a new COVID-19 outbreak in another long-term care facility in the county.A COVID-19 outbreak in a long-term care facility is defined as 2 or more laboratory-confirmed cases.There have now been outbreaks at 9 long-term care facilities in Buncombe CountyPublic health considers a long-term care facility COVID-19 outbreak over when it has been 28 days with no evidence of continued spread of COVID-19 within the facilityTwo facilities have had their outbreaks come to an end, so we are now at 7 active outbreaks in long-term care facilities in the countyMore details on these outbreaks
 will be available on the state’s COVID website on Friday July 10, 2020 by 4 p.m.Buncombe County Public Health is aware of over 18,400 COVID-19 tests that have been performed on BC residents and staff who work in BC LTCFs in Buncombe CountyLooking at the percent of tests that are positive tells us whether lab-confirmed cases are increasing in comparison to the number of tests performedIn NC as a whole, 9% of COVID-19 tests performed are coming back positive, this percentage has been stable for the past several weeks.In Buncombe County, since last week, we have seen a greater percentage of tests come back positive for COVID-19,  indicating we are seeing more spread of the infection in our communityLast week, 2% of COVID tests on county residents came back positive for COVID, but now we are seeing 4% of tests come back positiveIf you meet any of the following criteria, we are recommending that you get tested for COVID-19:
	


Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19


Symptoms include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.


Close contacts of known positive cases, whether or not you have symptoms


People in the following groups who believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19, whether or not you have symptoms:


Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)


Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


Persons from historically marginalized populations (meaning Black and Indigenous People and People of Color)


Health care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)


Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain


People who attended mass gatherings of any type, particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancing



Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19Symptoms include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Close contacts of known positive cases, whether or not you have symptomsPeople in the following groups who believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19, whether or not you have symptoms:Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)Persons from historically marginalized populations (meaning Black and Indigenous People and People of Color)Health care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintainPeople who attended mass gatherings of any type, particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancingIf your healthcare provider does not offer testing, contact one of the 
local urgent cares or clinics
 offering testing.The state website has a 
“Find My Testing Place
” resource with up-to-date information about testing locations in NCBuncombe County Government and Western North Carolina Community Health Services (WNCCHS) will continue to offer COVID-19 testing at community-based sites throughout the County over the next 8 weeks.The next testing event will be on 
Sunday, July 12 from 1:30-5:30pm at A-B Tech
, off Genevieve Circle, in the Allied Health Building Parking LotNext week we will begin the 3rd round of testing at the 
permanent community test sitesDue to the recent increase in testing nationwide and supply chain issues at some labs, LabCorp and other large commercial labs have seen an increase in specimens being sent to them for testingAs a result, the time it is taking to get test results has increased to 5-8 daysAnyone with a positive test result (meaning they have COVID-19) will be contacted by a Public Health nursePeople who were seen at the community testing sites are able to get their results online through the LabCorp Patient portalPer LabCorp’s website, test results will be delivered to the portal as soon as they are availableIndividuals will need to register or sign into the portal at 
patient.labcorp.comRegistration requires entry of the last four digits of the person’s social security number or a valid Driver’s License number for identity verification via text message or emailMission Health (MH) has seen a rise in cases locallyAll should continue to practice 3 Ws so that our healthcare system is not overwhelmed27 patients are currently hospitalized with the virus8 of those are in Intensive Care on ventilatorsPreviously we were averaging 15-20Are seeing an increase in patients in the 18-49 age groupMH remains at Level 2 visitationContinue to provide non-Covid care at this timeMH has created an insurance assistance programFind information at 
missionhealth.orgSince March, APD has been strongly focused on education and advisement when it comes to enforcement of COVID-19 related ordersOnly in cases where persistent non-compliant behavior persists, have we considered the use of citations to gain complianceSince March, we have received more than 300 calls for service related to COVID-19 ordersOut of these calls, less than a handful resulted in citations, many resolved with communicationIn regards to the mask mandate citations may be written only to businesses or organizations that fail to enforce the requirement to wear face coveringsOperators of businesses and organizations are entitled to rely on their customers or patrons' statements about whether or not they are exempted from the face covering requirements and businesses and organizations do not violate the Order if they rely on such statementsVoluntary compliance and education are specifically encouraged under the executive order, however, if a citation is necessary, just like the enforcement of past orders, it would be a Class 2 misdemeanorIf a business or organization does not allow entry to a worker, customer, or patron because that person refuses to wear a face covering, and if that worker, customer, or patron enters the premises or refuses to leave the premises, the individual may be cited for trespassing or violating any other lawsNon-compliance can be reported to APD’S non-emergency number at 828-252-1110As of noon today, there have been 598 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.118 of these individuals are currently in isolation.Over 52% of those with lab-confirmed COVID-19 in our county are between the ages of 18-49.Across the country, there has been an increase in COVID-19 in young adults.Over the last 2 weeks in Buncombe County, we've seen a 6% increase in cases in 18-49 year olds compared to the prior 2 week period.While the illness often is less severe in younger people, some do get very sick and even die.Younger individuals also may be more likely to show no symptoms yet still spread the virus.Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been outbreaks at 8 long-term care facilities in Buncombe County.A COVID-19 outbreak in a long-term care facility is defined as 2 or more laboratory-confirmed cases. NCDHHS considers a long-term care facility COVID-19 outbreak over when it has been 28 days with no evidence of continued spread of COVID-19 within the facility. We are now at 7 active outbreaks in long-term care facilities in the county.A long term care facility in our county that has been heavily affected by COVID-19 informed our communicable disease staff that the Medical Director of the facility conducted a review of the medical records of the residents of their facility who had died during their COVID-19 outbreak. As a result of that review, the facility administration reported to us that they had incorrectly reported the deaths of 10 residents of their facility as COVID-related deaths.Our communicable disease staff is updating the numbers accordingly in both the county and state communicable disease data collection systems.Therefore, there will be a noticeable decrease in the number of COVID-19-associated deaths in Buncombe County reported on the county and state websites in the next several days.Based on this adjustment, the current # of COVID-19-associated deaths in Buncombe County residents is now at 30, 25 of whom were residents of long-term care facilities.This change will not be reflected in today’s congregate care facility outbreak report from NC DHHS, but should appear on next Tuesday’s report.Buncombe County Public Health is aware of over 17,000 COVID-19 tests that have been performed on residents of Buncombe County and staff who work in LTCFs in Buncombe County since the start of this pandemic response.Who should get tested for COVID-19? Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19
	


Symptoms include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.


Close contacts of known positive cases, whether or not they have symptoms



Symptoms include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Close contacts of known positive cases, whether or not they have symptomsIf your healthcare provider does not offer testing, contact one of the local urgent cares or clinics offering testing.Please see the
 testing article
 for more details on testing and who should get tested. You can also use the 
symptom checker
 found at www.buncombeready.org.At both the Swannanoa and Enka locations, testing will be offered to staff of our smaller congregate care facilities from 9:30- 10:30 am and then open to the general public from 10:30am until 1:30pm.This is a holiday weekend when we celebrate our country’s birth.In past years, that meant getting together at cookouts or to watch fireworks. This year is different and it must be different due to COVID-19.Wearing a mask or face covering is a simple but powerful action -- one of the most important actions each of us can take to gain control over this virus. Every contact counts -- continue to reduce your contact with others outside of your household to keep your risk of exposure lower.You have the ability to protect your friends, family, our community, our economy and our country by following these simple steps.As of noon today, there have been 523 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.92 individuals currently in isolation.51% have been between the ages of 18-49.While the illness often is less severe in younger people, some do get very sick and even die.Younger individuals also may be more likely to show no symptoms yet still spread the virus.There are now outbreaks at 7 long-term care facilities in the county. An outbreak is considered to be 2 or more cases in a facility.Sadly, 37 Buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19, including 32 residents of 3 long-term care facilities experiencing outbreaks.South West Buncombe at 58 Apac Dr., Asheville (Buncombe County Sports Park) Every Thursday, Beginning July 2. Testing for general public will be from 10:30am until 1:30pmCentral Buncombe at AB Tech, Genevieve Circle, Asheville (Allied Health Parking Lot) Every Sunday, Beginning July 5 Testing will be from 1:30pm until 5:30pmRetail businessRestaurantsPersonal care, grooming, and tattoo businessesChild care facilitiesState government employeesTransportationManufacturing, construction, agricultural settingsMeat and poultry processing plantsLong term care facilitiespersons with any medical or behavioral condition or disability (including, but not limited to, any person who has trouble breathing, or is otherwise unable to put on or remove the face covering without assistance);Is under eleven years of age;Is actively eating or drinking;Is strenuously exercising;Is seeking to communicate with someone who is hearing-impaired in a way that requires the mouth to be visible;Is giving a speech for a broadcast or to an audience;Is working at home or is in a personal vehicle;Is temporarily removing his or her face covering to secure government or medical services or for identification purposes;Would be at risk from wearing a face covering at work, as determined by local, state, or federal regulators or workplace safety guidelines;Has found that their face covering is impeding visibility to operate equipment or a vehicle; and/orIs a child whose parent, guardian, or responsible person has been unable to place the face covering safely on the child’s face.As of noon today, there have been 470 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.139 of these individuals are currently in isolation.
	


Community spread of COVID-19 is occurring in our county. Cases spread through our community and households after interactions with coworkers; trips with extended family and friends; attendance at church, funerals, and gatherings with friends; and in many cases, without any certain source of exposure.



Community spread of COVID-19 is occurring in our county. Cases spread through our community and households after interactions with coworkers; trips with extended family and friends; attendance at church, funerals, and gatherings with friends; and in many cases, without any certain source of exposure.A majority of cases are occurring in 25-49 year olds.When you must go out in public or gather with others, practice the three Ws.
	


Wear a face covering.


Wait six feet apart from others when out in public.


Wash your hands.



Wear a face covering.Wait six feet apart from others when out in public.Wash your hands.Every contact counts and we must do the hard work now if we don’t want this situation to get worseThere are now outbreaks at 6 nursing homes in the county.An outbreak is considered to be 2 or more lab-confirmed cases in a facility within 28 days.We are working with those facilities on ongoing testing to identify new cases in any residents or staff in an effort to prevent further spread of infection.Sadly, 36 Buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19, including 31 residents of 2 nursing homes that are experiencing outbreaks.Over 12,250 COVID-19 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residents.Today’s percent positive rate is 3.8%, meaning that 3.8% of tests performed on Buncombe County residents have come back showing infection with COVID-19. Our rates have been around 4% for the past several weeks.The positivity rate for NC as a whole is 9% and other states in the southeast US are also seeing positivity rates higher than the rest of the US, which has a rate of 6%.Over 900 people have been tested at the community testing sites.Last week’s community testing identified 10 individuals with COVID-19; we are still waiting on results of 13 tests.25 total individuals have tested positive at these testing sites.Earlier this week, 150 people were tested at AB Tech; results from those tests have not yet returned.Testing is available for:
	


Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19


Symptoms may include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.


Anyone (with or without symptoms) who is a close contact of a known positive case



Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19Symptoms may include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Anyone (with or without symptoms) who is a close contact of a known positive caseAnyone (with or without symptoms) in the following groups who believes they may have been exposed to COVID-19:
	


Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)


Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


Historically marginalized populations


Healthcare workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)


Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain


People who attended mass gatherings (protests, marches, rallies, funerals, parties, cookouts, etc.), particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancing



Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)Historically marginalized populationsHealthcare workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintainPeople who attended mass gatherings (protests, marches, rallies, funerals, parties, cookouts, etc.), particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancingIf you meet the above criteria, contact your healthcare provider to see if testing is available through them.If not, check BuncombeReady.org for a list of local sites that are offering testing.There is no out-of-pocket cost for the testing at the community testing sites, but we do ask that those with health insurance, including Medicaid or Medicare, bring their insurance card with them so that their insurance can be billed for the cost of the test.Language services are available at the community testing sites.Thank you to all who have volunteered, provided testing, and helped with coordination of the testing sites. Your care and compassion are what we need right now. There is no doubt that caring for others is what will get us successfully through this global pandemic.Next week, our testing efforts will be focused on residential facilities that house older, at-risk adults.Community testing will resume the following week at locations throughout the county. These sites will be more permanent in nature and will operate with expanded hours to serve the needs of everyone in our community.Next week we will announce the locations of the testing sites for the week of June 29.It is important that people answer the call when the Community Team reaches out.Individuals being contacted will get an initial text from the number 45394 or email from dhhs.nc.gov with follow-up phone calls from their local health department or NC OUTREACH (844-628-7223).We all need to assume that we could have it, even if we are without symptoms, and we need to assume that everyone around us could have it as well.Use the self-checker found at 
buncombeready.org
 to assess your symptoms and the need for testing.It takes each of us caring about not just ourselves, but others in our community to slow and stop the spread of this illness.As of 5 p.m. today, there have been 452 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.159 of these individuals are currently in isolation.There remain outbreaks at 5 nursing homes in the county. An outbreak is considered to be 2 or more cases in a facility.Sadly, 35 Buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19, including 30 residents of 2 nursing homes that are experiencing outbreaks.Community spread of COVID-19 is occurring and public health officials urge caution when out in public to continue to slow the spread of coronavirus.Over 11,688 COVID-19 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residents.A total of 751 people have been tested at the community testing sites held throughout the county over 4 weeks of testing.Test results from last week’s community testing sites include 9 lab-confirmed positive COVID-19 results and 27 test results still pending.COVID-19 symptoms may include fever, chills, cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, loss of taste or smell, congestion, runny nose, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.Testing is available for those who have symptoms of COVID-19, as well as those who are without symptoms but have had close contact with someone known to have COVID-19, or those who may have been exposed to COVID-19 as a result of their occupation or activities.
	


Anyone who has attended a mass gathering


Anyone who works as a front-line worker in a grocery store, gas station, restaurant, or child care center


Anyone who lives or works in a higher risk setting like a homeless shelter, food processing facility



Anyone who has attended a mass gatheringAnyone who works as a front-line worker in a grocery store, gas station, restaurant, or child care centerAnyone who lives or works in a higher risk setting like a homeless shelter, food processing facilityWe also are encouraging individuals in historically marginalized populations to get tested as these populations have been disproportionately impacted by COVID-19.If your healthcare provider does not offer testing, contact one of the local urgent cares or clinics offering testing, including Range Urgent Care, Mercy Urgent Care, MAHEC Family Health Center at Biltmore, Mission Virtual Health, FastMed and the CVS on Hendersonville Road.Community testing is available this week at the following locations:
	


Tuesday, June 16 will be a drive-through testing site at the main AB tech campus behind the Allied Health Building from 1-4pm.


Thursday, June 18 testing will be at the Grant Center at 285 Livingston St from 1-4 pm. There is not a lot of room for parking at this location so we want people to know that it is intended for walk-up testing. The queue for cars will be on Livingston Street.



Tuesday, June 16 will be a drive-through testing site at the main AB tech campus behind the Allied Health Building from 1-4pm.Thursday, June 18 testing will be at the Grant Center at 285 Livingston St from 1-4 pm. There is not a lot of room for parking at this location so we want people to know that it is intended for walk-up testing. The queue for cars will be on Livingston Street.There is no out-of-pocket cost for the testing at the community testing sites, but we do ask that those with health insurance, including Medicaid or Medicare, bring their insurance card with them so that their insurance can be billed for the cost of the test.Language services will be available at the community testing sites.Case Count: 418 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents144 of these individuals are currently in isolationFatalities: 34 buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19There are now outbreaks at 5 nursing homes within Buncombe County
	


An outbreak is considered 2 or more cases in a facility



An outbreak is considered 2 or more cases in a facilityGet tested for COVID-19 if you are experiencing symptoms, are a member of front line staff, are a member of a high risk group, have attended a mass gathering, or have been in close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19
	


If you have insurance, please bring your card with you to get tested


Language services are available at the Buncombe County community testing sites


Click here
 to learn more about testing in Buncombe County



If you have insurance, please bring your card with you to get testedLanguage services are available at the Buncombe County community testing sitesClick here
 to learn more about testing in Buncombe CountyContact tracers contact people that may have been exposed to COVID-19It is important that people answer the call when the contact tracers reach out. Individuals being contacted will get an initial text from the number 45394 or email from dhhs.nc.gov with follow-up phone calls from their local health department or NC OUTREACH (844-628-7223).As of June 8, there have been a total of 393 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents143 of these have been in residents/staff of long-term care facilities34 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents including 29 residents of long-term care facilitiesThere are currently four outbreaks (two or more cases) in long-term care facilitiesCommunities of color continue to be disproportionately affected by COVID-19 nationally and locallyThe state reported the first COVID-19 associated death of a child in North CarolinaAlmost 10,300 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residents440 of those at Buncombe's community test sitesMany have mild or no symptomsIf you have symptoms, or are a close contact of someone who has tested positive we want you to get testedClick 
here
 for the schedule of next week’s community testing sites next week that are primarily for walk-up trafficThese test sites will rotate throughout Buncombe County in the coming weeks to meet the needs of people with limited access to a healthcare provider who is testing for COVID-19, people who face financial barriers to obtain a test, or who have no direct healthcareThere will be no out-of-pocket costs for anyone that receives testing through these sitesVisit the 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker 
to check symptomsYou should get tested if you have attended a mass gathering, are a frontline worker (grocery store), or a nursing home workerThe most optimal time for testing after a potential exposure is six days2095 Buncombe residents have completed the self-checker tool7% have reported severe symptomsBuncombe County now has 22 contact tracers on staffContact tracers will never ask for bank or social security informationHealth information shared is confidentialYou may receive a phone call from 844-628-7223, text from 45394, or email from state contact tracers at dhhs.nc.gov.Please remember the 3 Ws when returning to public spaces to continue to slow the spread of COVID-19
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyCase Count
: 374 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents.

	


~22% of positive cases in Buncombe County are in black, indigenous, and people of color who make up only 8.4% of our total population.


~25% of positive cases in Buncombe County identify as Hispanic or Latinx, who make up a total of 6.7% of our county’s population.



~22% of positive cases in Buncombe County are in black, indigenous, and people of color who make up only 8.4% of our total population.~25% of positive cases in Buncombe County identify as Hispanic or Latinx, who make up a total of 6.7% of our county’s population.Racism continues to be a threat to public health and is a public health crisis, a threat that can be measured and seen in the percentages listed above.Fatalities: 30 Buncombe County residents have died from COVID-19
	


25 were residents of Long Term Care Facilities



25 were residents of Long Term Care FacilitiesQuarantine orders are mandated to individuals who might have been exposed to COVID-19 and could infect others. An order to quarantine mandates that you stay home for 14 days while you monitor your symptoms. If you develop 
symptoms
 and are found to be positive, you will be issued an isolation order.Isolation orders are for individuals who are sick with COVID-19. An isolation order mandates that you should stay at home, in your own “sick room” or space until you have met the 
recovery criteria
, in order to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in Buncombe County.If you receive either of these orders, please take it seriously. COVID-19 is infecting and killing Buncombe residents and we need to work as a team to reduce the impact in our communities.We continue working to provide testing and support to long term care facilities. Unfortunately insurance providers are not covering cost of testing employeesIf you are sick or even have mild symptoms related to COVID-19, stay home.Employers are encouraged to take COVID-19 seriously by implementing public health guidance including mandating physical distancing for employees and clients, requiring face coverings be worn by all employees and clients, and making it convenient for all employees and clients to wash their hands or use hand sanitizer.Community Testing is available to Buncombe County residents. Click 
here
 for more information on testing near you.Remember to stay connected during this time. Check up on your friends and family but also remember to check in with yourself.Census funds help support the COVID-19 response effort and much more. Please do your part to secure funding for vital programs and services in Buncombe County by participating in the 
2020 Census
.Cases: 342 lab confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe CountyBuncombe County Fatalities: 29Today we observe a day of grief for the 100,000 people in the United States that have lost their lives to COVID-19.Public Health and partners continue to work with community and agency partners to provide testing services to facilities and their residents.We are offering three Buncombe County Testing opportunities this week. Click here to see our schedule.Thank you to Range Urgent Care for collaborating with our community to provide testing in Buncombe County.Racism is a threat to public health whether it is in the form of COVID-19 infection and death, rates of diabetes, infant and maternal mortality, or police brutality.It continues to be important to slow the spread of COVID-19. Here are some tips to reduce the spread:
	


If you choose to meet up with people outside your immediate household, do so outside.


Do not share food or drinks


Wear a face-covering and keep your hands clean


STAY HOME WHEN YOU ARE SICK



If you choose to meet up with people outside your immediate household, do so outside.Do not share food or drinksWear a face-covering and keep your hands cleanSTAY HOME WHEN YOU ARE SICKTo date, only six staff at mission hospital tested positive for COVID-19.The number of patients testing positive for COVID-19 has risen over the last 2 weeks from 6 to between 12 and 20 per day. Many of these patients are cared for in the ICU and several of them are on ventilators. While this is a significant increase, it is neither overwhelming nor unexpected. There are currently ample supports and resources to care for 3 times our current case load.Our goal continues to be to reduce the spread and impact of COVID-19. It is our shared responsibility to do everything we can save lives, including practicing the 3 Ws:
	


Wait 6 feet apart from other people


Wear a face covering in public spaces


Wash your hands frequently



Wait 6 feet apart from other peopleWear a face covering in public spacesWash your hands frequentlyThe next community update will be held on 6/4 at 2:30p.As of May 22, there have been a total of 279 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents119 of these have been in residents/staff of long-term care facilities20 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents including 15 residents of long-term care facilitiesThe majority of deaths have been in individuals over the age of 65There are currently four outbreaks (two or more cases) in long-term care facilitiesCommunities of color continue to be  disproportionately affected by COVID-19 nationally and locallyAlmost 7000 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residentsIf you have symptoms, or are a close contact of someone who has tested positive we want you to get testedClick 
here
 for the schedule of next week’s community testing sites next week that are primarily for walk-up trafficThese test sites will rotate throughout Buncombe County in the coming weeks to meet the needs of people with limited access to a healthcare provider who is testing for COVID-19, people who face financial barriers to obtain a test, or who have no direct healthcareThere will be no out-of-pocket costs for anyone that receives testing through these sitesVisit the 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker
 to check symptomsPlease remember the 3 Ws when returning to public spaces to continue to slow the spread of COVID-19
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyThe purpose of face coverings is to reduce your chance of transmitting the virus to othersMission Health (MH) had close to one dozen people hospitalized last week related to skilled nursing facilitiesMH became aware of a small group of staff who work closely together and identified 6 members of staff who tested positiveThey found no evidence of risk with patientsMH has tested remainder of staff on that unit: 48 additional tests have been done with 4 still pendingMH will continue to restrict visitation, and continue their mask policyMH is appreciative of the hard work of the employees of these facilities and their familiesMH has ample supplies to monitor and provide for the care of patients and staffBuncombe Courts are beginning to expand operations beginning June 1, and they will be following all necessary safety protocolsMany of the matters that were postponed including landlord/tenant matters will begin againCourts will continue to utilize remote technologies for processing cases and for those cases that require court appearances we will be strongly recommending the usage of masksThere may be a substantial backlog of cases and they will prioritized in the order of seriousness, age, and readiness for courtThe courts thank the public for their patienceChief Justice Beasley reiterates we must continue to provide justice through our courts while balancing safety for the public and employeesJury trials are suspended through the month of July. If you have been summoned for jury duty you will not have to serve in the months of June or July with the exception of the grand juryMarc Shimberg has been appointed COVID-19 coordinator for Buncombe courtsVisit 
nccourts.gov
 and click on Buncombe County for more informationClick 
here 
to see the statement from Buncombe DA Todd WilliamsThe DA’s office will prioritize domestic violence, driving while impaired, and class A1 misdemeanors for prosecutionIf you are charged with these crimes you must come to court, if you fail to come to court, they will ask judges to issue an order for your arrestVisit 
buncombeda.org
 if you have a question about a court date or call 259-3410 for assistanceThanks to all EMS workers during EMS appreciation weekAs of May 22, there have been a total of 216 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents, click here for the 
dashboard
 of cases7 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsCommunities of color continue to be  disproportionately affected by COVID-19 nationally and locallyOver 4300 tests have been performed in Buncombe County residentsIf you have symptoms, or are a close contact of someone who has tested positive we want you to get testedClick 
here
 for the schedule of next week’s community testing sites next week that are primarily for walk-up trafficThey test sites will rotate throughout Buncombe County in the coming weeks to meet the needs of people with limited access to a healthcare provider who is testing for COVID-19, people who face financial barriers to obtain a test, or who have no direct healthcareThere will be no out-of-pocket costs for anyone that receives testing through these sitesVisit the 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker
 to check symptomsRemember the 3 Ws when returning to public spaces to continue to slow the spread of COVID-19 as we move into Phase 2
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyPlease continue the practice of physical distancingThe purpose of face coverings is to reduce your chance of transmitting the virus to othersWearing face coverings in public is a sign of caring and compassionThe
 Board of Commissioners on May 21
, approved requiring the use of face coverings for indoor public facing businesses such as retail stores and restaurants, effective Tuesday, May 26 at 7 a.m.This will be for Asheville and unincorporated Buncombe County onlyVisit buncombeready.org for more information on the updated 
Safer at Home orderBuncombe County enters
 Phase 2
 at 5 p.m. on May 22We are adopting Gov. Cooper’s 
Executive Order 141
 and 
FAQ 
document with certain restrictionsWe can all work together to slow the spread of COVID-19 in our communityLet's be safe, smart, and take this step by stepLet's Talk Justice takes place on Tuesday, May 26 from 1-2 p.m.The next community update will take place on Wednesday, May 27 at 3 p.m. As of 1 p.m. May 18, there have been a total of 176 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents (
buncombecounty.org dashboard
 is in the process of being updated)5 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsOver 3700 tests have been done in Buncombe CountyWe now have COVID-19 outbreaks in 
four long-term care facilitiesThanks to Range Urgent Care, Buncombe County Emergency Services, Blue Ridge Health and LabCorp who have answered the call and stepped up to assist with testing at these facilities.Buncombe County has worked proactively with long-term care facilities when they identify one case in a resident or staff memberWhile state guidance recommends testing of all residents and staff, if possible, we are working with facilities and community partners to ensure all residents and staff in these facilities are testedWe are instructing those facilities to repeat testing within the following week and each week thereafter until no new cases are identifiedAs of the morning of May 18, about 1000 tests were conducted in long-term care facilitiesBy COB May 18, 2 facilities will have completed their second round of testingPublic Health, Emergency Services, and Asheville Fire Department are assisting facilities with testing, guidance, and to provide PPE if a need has been identifiedThe North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services issued updated guidance on who should be tested for COVID-19The new guidance recommends that clinicians test any patient in whom COVID-19 is suspected and ensures the following populations have access to testing, regardless of symptoms
	


Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19


Close contacts of known positive cases, regardless of symptoms 


Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)


Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


Persons who come from historically marginalized populations


Health care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)


Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain- and they should repeat testing often if they get a negative test result



Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19Close contacts of known positive cases, regardless of symptoms Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)Persons who come from historically marginalized populationsHealth care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain- and they should repeat testing often if they get a negative test resultLast week at the 2 community-based testing events approximately 100 individuals were tested. Western North Carolina Community Health Services will be contacting these individuals with their resultsOur community-based testing events are scheduled to continue this week and beyond. They are intended for walk-up testing and for people in these communitiesWe will notify the community of any postponements by 9 a.m. the day of the scheduled eventThe details of the testing sites are available at buncombeready.org
	


Pisgah View Community, Tuesday, May 19, 1-4 p.m.


Sandy Mush Community Center, Wednesday, May 20, 1-4 p.m.


Deaverview Community Center, Thursday, May 21, 1-4 p.m.



Pisgah View Community, Tuesday, May 19, 1-4 p.m.Sandy Mush Community Center, Wednesday, May 20, 1-4 p.m.Deaverview Community Center, Thursday, May 21, 1-4 p.m.Find more information on testing 
hereGovernor Cooper’s Executive Order 138, the Phase I Order, remains in effect through this Friday May 22 at 5 p.m.We expect, that later this week, the Governor’s office and the COVID-19 Task Force will start sharing details about the planned rollout of Phase 2General framework may include:
	


Lifting the Statewide Stay at Home Order


Encouraging vulnerable populations to Stay Home


Allowing a limited opening of restaurants, bars and other businesses that can follow physical distancing protocol to operate at a reduced capacity.


Allow gatherings at houses of worship and entertainment venues at a reduced capacity


Increase the number of people allowed at mass gatherings


Open public playgrounds


Continuing rigorous restrictions on nursing homes and other congregate living settings.



Lifting the Statewide Stay at Home OrderEncouraging vulnerable populations to Stay HomeAllowing a limited opening of restaurants, bars and other businesses that can follow physical distancing protocol to operate at a reduced capacity.Allow gatherings at houses of worship and entertainment venues at a reduced capacityIncrease the number of people allowed at mass gatheringsOpen public playgroundsContinuing rigorous restrictions on nursing homes and other congregate living settings.Public Health will make recommendations to County leadership as more details emergeWearing face coverings in a public setting is one of the best tools currently in our toolbox for minimizing the spread of COVID-19. Studies consistently show that roughly 50% of new cases are infected by people who themselves are not showing symptoms. This means that healthy people are infecting others, probably without ever knowing they are even sick.These non-fitted masks, bandanas, and head wraps are intended to protect others. They work as a barrier, to physically knock down droplets of saliva, and they are very effective.Many studies show that if just 80% of people wore a face covering when in public the transmission of COVID-19 could be halted. Without a treatment, the combination of face coverings and physical distancing are the best tools we have to fight this pandemic.Link to cases 
dashboardDespite facilities’ robust efforts to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 among staff and residents, outbreaks in long-term care facilities continue to occur throughout North Carolina and the United States.Cases associated with long term care facilities make up half of the cases of COVID-19 in North Carolina.To date, Buncombe County has been notified of lab confirmed cases of COVID-19 in 2 long-term care facilities within our county.Buncombe County Public Health is actively conducting contact tracing and coordinating with the facilities.Fire Marshals and Environmental Health Specialists jointly visited every long-term care facility in Buncombe County in early April to assess facilities prevention strategies and create a line of communication in the event of a COVID-19 outbreak.There are plans underway for the creation of a strike team that will visit all congregate care facilities in Buncombe County to ensure that administrators have the support and guidance they need.The strike team will consist of public health nurses and emergency services personnel, who will provide education on PPE protocols, review site plan layouts and plans for isolation and quarantine of suspected or positive cases in staff and residents.This team will also provide facilities with a list of COVID-19 testing providers, support with supplies, and will provide technical assistance for testing in the event that a staff member or resident becomes symptomatic.At this point, over 3,500 COVID-19 tests have been administered in Buncombe County.45.7 % of cases are in people between the ages of 25-49.There are still 4 COVID-19 associated deaths in Buncombe County. The numbers reported earlier in the week from Mission included deaths in people who were not residents of Buncombe County.In Buncombe County, 34.3 % of our cases are in the Hispanic population. This disproportionality is not to be taken lightly.As COVID-19 has highlighted health and social inequalities across the country existing prior to this pandemic, we have and will continue to conduct outreach to our Hispanic, African-American and under resourced communities to ensure that we are offering testing sites that meet the needs of our community.  The Buncombe County Emergency Operations Center’s Rapid Response & Recovery Equity Action Team has identified testing site locations based on an equity analysis reliant on relevant data and community input.Testing is available to both the insured and uninsured, with no out of pocket cost. The community testing sites are designed as walk-up sites and for those who are unable to get to an urgent care or primary care provider.If you have transportation, please reach out to MAHEC Family Health Center, Mercy Urgent Care, or Range Urgent Care to get tested for COVID-19.47 people were tested at the community testing site at Hillcrest on Tuesday.Next week, Western North Carolina Community Health Services will run COVID-19 Community Testing sites in these locations:
	


Pisgah View Community on Tuesday, May 19th -1-4pm


Sandy Mush Community Center on Wednesday, May 20th - 1-4pm


Deaverview Community on Thursday, May 21st - 1-4pm



Pisgah View Community on Tuesday, May 19th -1-4pmSandy Mush Community Center on Wednesday, May 20th - 1-4pmDeaverview Community on Thursday, May 21st - 1-4pmWe will be hosting testing sites ongoing in the coming weeks.There are enough testing supplies available for our community to be tested if they have symptoms of COVID-19.As of 1 p.m. May 11, there have been a total of 102 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents4 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsOver 3100 tests have been done in Buncombe CountyCommunities of color have been disproportionately affected by COVID-19 nationally and locally-34% of the positive cases in Buncombe County self-identify as LatinxIf you have symptoms, we want you to get testedThe community testing sites that start tomorrow are primarily for walk-up trafficThey test sites will rotate throughout Buncombe County in the coming weeks to meet the needs of people with limited access to a healthcare provider who is testing for COVID-19, people who face financial barriers to obtain a test, or who have no direct healthcareVisit the 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker 
to check symptomsRemember the 3 Ws
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyThere are now many more businesses open in the community, these businesses must comply with specific directions from the state as to how they are allowed to operatePeople should still stay at home as much as possible, but the variety of reasons people are allowed to leave their homes has expandedVisit buncombeready.org for more information on new 
Stay Safe-Stay HomeSee the 
Phase 1 transition chart
 hereThe purpose of face coverings is to reduce your chance of transmitting the virus to othersWearing face coverings in public is a sign of caring and compassionIndividual stores and businesses that have opened up for Phase 1 of operations have the right to require patrons to wear face coverings to enter their businessMission Health (MH) response remains robustMH has resumed what is termed as elective proceduresMH is on Level 3 visitor restriction- no visitors on floor of hospital except for certain circumstancesPlease seek emergency care if you experiencing a serious medical condition or need emergency careMH has had 34 patients who have received care for COVID-192 patients in care at this timeAs of 1 p.m. May 7, there have been a total of 87 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents4 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsMore information will be released tomorrow about additional community based testing sitesIf you have symptoms, we want you to get testedCall your healthcare provider, urgent care, or Buncombe County’s public health hotline at (828) 250-5300Once certain restrictions are lifted we should still
	


Limit nonessential travel


Practice physical distancing


Wear face coverings


Wash hands or use hand sanitizer



Limit nonessential travelPractice physical distancingWear face coveringsWash hands or use hand sanitizerBoard of Commissioners Chair Brownie Newman signed new declaration 
Stay Home Stay Safe Order- Phase 1 ReopeningPhase one of Buncombe’s reopening campaign is effective May 8, at 5 p.m.This order aligns with Governor Cooper’s Executive Order 138 with the sole exception of a continued restriction on leisure travel bookingAsheville City Mayor Esther Manheimer emphasized the 3 Ws
	


Wait at least 6 feet apart when in line


Wear a face covering


Wash your hands regularly



Wait at least 6 feet apart when in lineWear a face coveringWash your hands regularlyThank all to the first responders, nurses, and teachers in your lives. These essential public servants have been working around the clock to ensure the health and safety of our communities.The amended Stay Home-Stay Safe order reduces restrictions on travel, retail and business.Business that must remain closed:
	


Restaurants (open only for takeout)


Health Clubs


Beauty


Entertainment Facilities



Restaurants (open only for takeout)Health ClubsBeautyEntertainment FacilitiesMany retail businesses are allowed to open (at 50% capacity) as long as they:
	


Respect physical distancing guidelines by requiring patrons to shop and wait at least 6 feet apart.


Provide hand washing stations or hand sanitizer in store


Encourage patrons to wear face coverings



Respect physical distancing guidelines by requiring patrons to shop and wait at least 6 feet apart.Provide hand washing stations or hand sanitizer in storeEncourage patrons to wear face coveringsToday is Mental Health Awareness DayPractice Awareness- what does stress feel like in your body?GratitudeSeek ResourcesHope4NC Helpline: 1-855-587-3463As of 1 p.m. May 4, there have been a total of 
79 lab-confirmed cases
 of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents4 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsWe expect to see the count rise as testing increases and restrictions continue to relaxBuncombe County and NC State launched the 
COVID-19 Self Checker
 on April 30237 individuals have completed the self-checker since the launchCDC has updated symptom guidance to include: People with these symptoms or combinations of symptoms may have COVID-19:
	


Cough


Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing



CoughShortness of breath or difficulty breathingOr at least two of these symptoms:
	


Fever


Chills


Repeated shaking with chills


Muscle pain


Headache


Sore throat


New loss of taste or smell



FeverChillsRepeated shaking with chillsMuscle painHeadacheSore throatNew loss of taste or smellIf you have symptoms, we want you to get testedCall your healthcare provider, urgent care, or Buncombe County’s public health hotline at (828) 250-5300For employers who want to make sure their work environments are safe:
	


Are people are in close contact to one another- 6 feet for a period of 10 minutes or more?


Are there adequate handwashing stations?


Are employees wearing face coverings and physical distancing to the greatest extent possible?



Are people are in close contact to one another- 6 feet for a period of 10 minutes or more?Are there adequate handwashing stations?Are employees wearing face coverings and physical distancing to the greatest extent possible?Since COVID-19 spreads through close contact with others, we must take all necessary steps to reduce the opportunity for spreading the virus as much as possible:
	


Physical distancing – limit contact with others outside of your household


Handwashing for 20 seconds or more


Monitoring your symptoms daily


Wearing a face covering in public


Cleaning frequently touched surfaces with approved sanitizers



Physical distancing – limit contact with others outside of your householdHandwashing for 20 seconds or moreMonitoring your symptoms dailyWearing a face covering in publicCleaning frequently touched surfaces with approved sanitizersNC Governor moving forward with plans to implement Phase 1 of reopening on May 9Reopening will be slow and deliberate, if cases escalate quickly we stand ready to re-implement more restrictive measuresAs of 1 p.m. April 30, there have been a total of 68 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents4 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsBuncombe County has launched a new COVID-19 
data dashboardOver 2600 tests have been conducted by providers and MHBuncombe County and NC State have launched the 
COVID-19 Self CheckerSome 
providers and urgent cares
 have adapted their processes to allow safe testingBC is working to draft plans to get testing to under resourced areas of our communityCDC has updated symptom guidance to include: People with these symptoms or combinations of symptoms may have COVID-19:
	


Cough


Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing



CoughShortness of breath or difficulty breathingOr at least two of these symptoms:
	


Fever


Chills


Repeated shaking with chills


Muscle pain


Headache


Sore throat


New loss of taste or smell



FeverChillsRepeated shaking with chillsMuscle painHeadacheSore throatNew loss of taste or smellIf you have symptoms, use the COVID-19 Self Checker or call your healthcare provider, urgent care, or Buncombe County’s public health hotline at (828) 250-5300Board of Commissioners Chairman Newman announced changes to the 
Stay Home Stay Safe
 order effective 6 a.m., May 1, 2020The most substantial change is to the mass gathering number. It has changed from 0 to 10Mission Health has seen between 20-25 COVID-19 patientsMission Health states they have adequate resources to care for patients and will be expanding and ramping up some imaging and surgery servicesMission Health still has Level 2 restrictions in placeDr. Hathaway reassures the community that hospitals are a safe place to goAs of 1 p.m., April 27, there have been a total of 54 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsOver 2200 tests have been conducted by providers and Mission HealthThe number of tests done last week was about 7% higher than the previous weekSome providers and urgent cares have adapted their processes to allow safe testingBC is working to draft plans to get testing to under-resourced areas of our communityIf you have symptoms, call your healthcare provider, urgent care, or Buncombe County’s public health hotline at (828) 250-5300BC Public Health is currently contact tracing for every case of COVID-19 in our communityWe have 7 current staff and are training additional staffNCDHHS is also working to increase contact tracing capacity statewidePlease continue to follow guidance-stay home when you can, wear a cloth face mask when you go out, wash your handsWe are still finalizing details about self-checker tool and will push out soonAs we draft our framework for re-opening, it is our goal to align with the Governor’s planThe county does not collect or interpret cell phone dataPlease remember to fill out your census so our schools and emergency services can get the resources they needAs of 1 p.m. April 23, there have been a total of 51 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents2,170 tests have been conducted by providers and Mission HealthRange and Mercy Urgent Care are working to increase testingWe are working with our local federally qualified health centers to see how they can help us get testing out to under-resourced parts of our communityWe have put out a request to our local hospital systems to see how they can increase testing in the communityPublic health experts believe that we will still be dealing with COVID-19 in the Fall and into next yearWe will have a successful response if we can test, trace contacts, and examine the trendsPublic Health continues to develop a comprehensive strategy to slowly open our community and economy while keeping our community as safe as possibleWe will have a draft proposal for leadership to review early next weekThe process will be deliberately slow and gradualGovernor Cooper has outlined a roadmap to reopening
	


More testing


Increase capacity for contact tracing


Consistent downward trends



More testingIncrease capacity for contact tracingConsistent downward trendsLocally a tool is in development to assist with identifying trends and connecting people to testingMore information and details will be released on MondayAs of 1 p.m. April 20, there have been a total of 48 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents1900 tests have been done by providers in Buncombe County-this does not include testing not reported to BC Public Health that came back negative or any rapid test results that were negative such as Mission Health’s labBC Public Health testing priority continues to be for high-risk groups such as those living in congregate living facilities, first responders, and healthcare providersNCDHHS has revised guidance to providers to encourage testing of individuals who the provider suspects having COVID-19BC Public Health will continue conversations with providers to explore options for providers to get more access to testingRole of Public Health continues to be surveillance and contact tracingCity of Asheville and Skyland Fire Department in coordination with BC Emergency Services have established Quick Response Teams ( QRTs) that consist of firefighters that have advanced emergency medical trainingQRTs can respond to non, life-threatening medical emergencies in our communityThe goal of QRT program is to lower the burden on our healthcare systemThe safety and health of our first responders is a top priorityBC Emergency Services received a large supply of PPE last week from NC Emergency Management and today from Dogwood Health TrustThese PPE additions mean a high level of confidence that our first responders will be protected and that the rate of use will not exceed supplyBuncombe County is working to develop an adaptive response to slowly ease restrictions and reopen our community based on data and lead indicatorsThe community must be prepared to close down quickly if there is a surge in casesWe will follow and assess NC Governor’s intentions and plans to evaluate what is right for our communityAs of 1 p.m. April 16, there have been a total of 43 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents44% of these individuals have been 25-49 years of ageThere has been 3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsCounty is looking at testing, tracking, and trendsMoving to increasing the availability of testing for COVID-19 in our communityBCHHS has identified and will be training additional staff to support additional contact tracing as we expect to identify more cases when testing is increasedData and trends that the state and our county will be following include the number of new positive cases, numbers of people in the hospital for COVID-19 illness, numbers of deaths, as well as available supply of personal protective equipment and hospital capacityIf you are sick with symptoms of COVID-19, please contact your primary care provider or a local urgent care. If you don’t have a primary care provider, you can call (828) 250-5300 to speak with a nurse who can assess your need to be testedPlease continue to wash your hands, do not touch your face, safely wear a face covering when you go out in public if physical distancing is not possibleThe EOC has been activated for 34 daysRepurposed County employees have volunteered to attend 40 hours of EMS medical and operations training through A-B Tech’s EMS workforce trainingPandemic planning is in place for Detention Center and vulnerable population outbreaksState Medical Assistance Team has helped to set up alternate care facility at A-B Tech Nursing Care simulation lab if neededWork is being done with partner agencies to develop a rapid medical volunteer credentialing process if neededFor non-medical volunteers visit 
handsonasheville.orgAs of 2 p.m. on April 13 there have been a total of 38 lab-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Buncombe County residents34 of these individuals have recovered from their illness and been released from isolationThere now have been 3 deaths associated with COVID-19 in Buncombe County residentsA survey tool is in development that can give us a better idea of the number of people experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 in Buncombe CountyThe Governor’s most recent Executive Order means you might see some changes at essential retail establishmentsCity of Asheville Fire Marshals are visiting essential retailers today and over the next few days to assist them in determining and posting these new Emergency Maximum Occupancy numbersCheck websites or call ahead to ensure you aren’t encroaching on special hours for vulnerable populationsYou may also see plastic shields at cash registers, or shopping lanes marked for one-way routing through the store.We ask everyone to be patient with each other and staff as we navigate these challenging times together. Respect everyone’s space, try to understand and share the feelings of others, and be kind.People 65 years of age or older People of any age who have a high-risk condition that includes: chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthmaheart disease with complications weakened immune system severe obesity - body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher other underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled, such as diabetes, kidney failure or liver diseasepregnancy - pregnant women should be followed closely by their healthcare providers since they are known to be at risk for severe viral illness.Updated Case Count as of noon, 37 lab confirmed positive cases in Buncombe County residentsOne Buncombe Fund
 has reached nearly $950K, funds are still neededFor Stay Home, Stay Safe questions contact the Ready Team at (828) 419-0095, 
ready@buncombecounty.org
, or call 211Harrah’s Cherokee Center is now serving as a 
shelter for vulnerable populationsStay Home-Stay Safe FAQs-
	


Greenways and Parks: Outdoor activity is considered essential and is encouraged, both for exercise and mental health purposes. But you still have to abide by physical distancing and mass gathering orders. That means no group activities, no carpooling with people outside your immediate household, and keeping 6ft distannce from others. Please observe and adhere to any and all park closures.  Some parks across the city and county are closed due to specific health and safety concerns.


Drive-in Services: Religious groups may now conduct drive-in or parking lot services, this previous restriction was relaxed as of this morning when the new order went into effect, however the leaders of these services are responsible for ensuring that their congregants stay inside of their vehicles for the duration of the time spent on the premises and observe the following guidance:


Have only individuals from a single household in each vehicle (i.e., no carpooling, use of church buses, no children going from car to car, etc.)


Vehicles should be parked 6 feet or more from each other


Do not pass anything between vehicles (e.g., communion, offering plates, money, notes, etc.)


No physical contact- including handshakes, hugs, or kissing



Greenways and Parks: Outdoor activity is considered essential and is encouraged, both for exercise and mental health purposes. But you still have to abide by physical distancing and mass gathering orders. That means no group activities, no carpooling with people outside your immediate household, and keeping 6ft distannce from others. Please observe and adhere to any and all park closures.  Some parks across the city and county are closed due to specific health and safety concerns.Drive-in Services: Religious groups may now conduct drive-in or parking lot services, this previous restriction was relaxed as of this morning when the new order went into effect, however the leaders of these services are responsible for ensuring that their congregants stay inside of their vehicles for the duration of the time spent on the premises and observe the following guidance:Have only individuals from a single household in each vehicle (i.e., no carpooling, use of church buses, no children going from car to car, etc.)Vehicles should be parked 6 feet or more from each otherDo not pass anything between vehicles (e.g., communion, offering plates, money, notes, etc.)No physical contact- including handshakes, hugs, or kissingSecond Homes, Summer Homes, Vacation Lodging: All Visitors traveling to Buncombe County from outside the state of North Carolina, upon arrival, must quarantine for 14 days at their place of residence BEFORE entering the community. This means you come into Buncombe County and you go straight to your residence. You don’t go to the grocery store, you don’t go to essential retail.  So, you need to have support in place before you arrive to facilitate this quarantine. You need to have a plan for how you will get food and essentials without entering the community.This mandate is posted at the Airport and being announced as flights come in, It has also been passed to our local hotels and homestay networks via Explore Asheville.One point of clarification, this visitor mandate DOES NOT apply to travelers coming to the County on essential business.Updated Case Count as of noon, 37 lab confirmed positive cases in Buncombe County residentsNew select characteristics data is 
availableBuncombe County Board of Commissioners Chairman Newman signed a new 
Stay Safe, Stay Home
 orderFor questions contact the Ready Team at (828) 419-0095, 
ready@buncombecounty.org
, or call 211Updated case count as of noon, 33 Buncombe County residents test positiveCounty's current Stay Safe, Stay Home declaration will expire on April 9 at 6 a.m. Work is being done to draft a new order that will align more closely with Governor Cooper’s Executive Order, however there will still be some differences. An update will take place on Wednesday, April 8, at 4 p.m.Justice Calvin Hill stated Buncombe County courts will follow extended guidance from Chief Justice Beasley. Learn more at 
nccourts.govVisit 
buncombeready.org
 and click on the Community Connect link to share information about your home with first respondersUpdated Case Count as of noon, 31 Buncombe County  residents test positiveNo new cases in visitors to Buncombe CountyFAQs on Buncombe County's Stay Safe-Stay Home declaration:
	


Is there a curfew? There is no curfew. The Stay Home-Stay Safe declaration is a standing declaration effective until Thursday April 9. Buncombe County is not taking any actions to disrupt transit or roads- we are only asking people to limit their travel to essential travel only. At this time essential personnel and businesses do not need any credential or pass to be on the roads. 


What about in person auto sales? What can be done about enforcing this? This is an area is which our local orders are more restrictive than the Governor’s. In-person auto sales are nonessential until April 9. Auto dealerships can show and sell vehicles virtually, and they may close and complete paperwork in process as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidance. Auto repair and maintenance are essential services. If a dealership has a maintenance and service line on site, that line of operations may continue to operate.


How are we enforcing? Law enforcement response to violations of the statute are complaint driven. We do ask that anyone reporting a violation of the local statue do so on NON emergency lines. Please don't call  911 for these purposes. Law enforcement will enforce the order through education, dialogue, and seeking voluntary cooperation from all residents and businesses. If voluntary cooperation is not achieved, Buncombe County Law Enforcement is equipped to enforce these restrictions through citations or misdemeanor charges.


What about grocery stores that are not taking measures to ensure social distancing? Grocery stores and any form of food and nutrition delivery are considered essential. We are continuing to reach out to grocery stores with our latest guidance and recommendations. We have encouraged them to consider limiting the amount of people allowed in their stores at once as well as to mark out 6 foot intervals when people are waiting to check out.


How are we enforcing Airbnb stays? Over the last few weeks we have had many calls with local business groups, to include AIR, Land of Sky, the Chamber of Commerce, and Explore Asheville to push guidance and answer questions. Among those groups that we’ve been in communication with is the Asheville Homestay Network, which represents a large number of Airbnb and VRBOs in the area. We are currently working with them to clarify and ensure our guidance on short-term rentals under our local Stay Home-Stay Safe declaration.


Despite lock-down measures, cases elsewhere have been surging through assisted-care or nursing homes. What more is being done to check in with these facilities and prevent spread? We are  aware of the increased risk for these types of care facilities where the entire population falls into our high-risk category. For months we have been reaching out to them to pass the latest guidance and instruction from the CDC and Public Health. We have dispatched County Fire Marshals to all of these facilities to personally deliver documents and provide guidance. We constantly update our planning efforts for the quickest possible response to any indication of cases at one of these facilities.


What about my weekend plans? We know that the weather will be nice over the weekend, but please do not use this as a reason for close contact with anyone outside of your household. Do not go on a raft with 6 people who are not in your household, or load up in a truck and go mountain biking with several of your friends. Get some fresh air but don’t be lulled into a false sense of security. Please continue to maintain a distance of 6 feet between yourself and others, wash your hands, and try to reduce your exposure as much as possible.




 
 Is there a curfew? There is no curfew. The Stay Home-Stay Safe declaration is a standing declaration effective until Thursday April 9. Buncombe County is not taking any actions to disrupt transit or roads- we are only asking people to limit their travel to essential travel only. At this time essential personnel and businesses do not need any credential or pass to be on the roads. What about in person auto sales? What can be done about enforcing this? This is an area is which our local orders are more restrictive than the Governor’s. In-person auto sales are nonessential until April 9. Auto dealerships can show and sell vehicles virtually, and they may close and complete paperwork in process as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidance. Auto repair and maintenance are essential services. If a dealership has a maintenance and service line on site, that line of operations may continue to operate.How are we enforcing? Law enforcement response to violations of the statute are complaint driven. We do ask that anyone reporting a violation of the local statue do so on NON emergency lines. Please don't call  911 for these purposes. Law enforcement will enforce the order through education, dialogue, and seeking voluntary cooperation from all residents and businesses. If voluntary cooperation is not achieved, Buncombe County Law Enforcement is equipped to enforce these restrictions through citations or misdemeanor charges.What about grocery stores that are not taking measures to ensure social distancing? Grocery stores and any form of food and nutrition delivery are considered essential. We are continuing to reach out to grocery stores with our latest guidance and recommendations. We have encouraged them to consider limiting the amount of people allowed in their stores at once as well as to mark out 6 foot intervals when people are waiting to check out.How are we enforcing Airbnb stays? Over the last few weeks we have had many calls with local business groups, to include AIR, Land of Sky, the Chamber of Commerce, and Explore Asheville to push guidance and answer questions. Among those groups that we’ve been in communication with is the Asheville Homestay Network, which represents a large number of Airbnb and VRBOs in the area. We are currently working with them to clarify and ensure our guidance on short-term rentals under our local Stay Home-Stay Safe declaration.Despite lock-down measures, cases elsewhere have been surging through assisted-care or nursing homes. What more is being done to check in with these facilities and prevent spread? We are  aware of the increased risk for these types of care facilities where the entire population falls into our high-risk category. For months we have been reaching out to them to pass the latest guidance and instruction from the CDC and Public Health. We have dispatched County Fire Marshals to all of these facilities to personally deliver documents and provide guidance. We constantly update our planning efforts for the quickest possible response to any indication of cases at one of these facilities.What about my weekend plans? We know that the weather will be nice over the weekend, but please do not use this as a reason for close contact with anyone outside of your household. Do not go on a raft with 6 people who are not in your household, or load up in a truck and go mountain biking with several of your friends. Get some fresh air but don’t be lulled into a false sense of security. Please continue to maintain a distance of 6 feet between yourself and others, wash your hands, and try to reduce your exposure as much as possible.Updated Case Count as of noon, 21 Buncombe County  residents test positiveNo new cases in visitors to Buncombe County16 residents have recovered from COVID-19 and have been released from isolationFirst fatality on March 28BC Public Health continues to work proactively with facilities where a potential for positive cases is considered more worrisome due to potential to spread quickly, like long term care facilities, shelters for persons experiencing homelessness, and detention facilitiesFurther clarification on  differences between Gov. Cooper’s Mandate and BC Stay Safe-Stay Home mandate
	


Are auto sales essential? In person auto sales are nonessential until April 9. Auto dealerships can show and sell vehicles virtually, and they may close and complete paperwork in processing as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidance. Auto repair and maintenance are essential services. If an auto dealership has a maintenance and service line on site, that line of operations may continue to operate.


Is Realty essential? In person house showing is nonessential until April 9. Realtors can show and sell homes virtually.  They can also continue and complete any vital paperwork or legal processes to continue sales. In general, under the Minimum Business Operations clause, they can also send staff and contractors to houses to maintain and update their virtual inventory.


Is Lawn Care essential? Lawn Care may operate under the minimum business operations clause, this means minimal staffing and as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygienic requirements. These social distancing requirement include travel to and from a jobsite, on the jobsite, and to lunch and breaks on jobsites. We want to ensure that all Buncombe County residents, whether on essential business or not, maintain their distance at 6ft.


Is moving an essential function? Yes, moving is an essential function. If you haven’t yet scheduled your move, and you can delay it, that is recommended, but if not please ensure you are doing your very best to avoid close contact and sanitizing common-touch surfaces. If you are moving to another county or state, or you are moving to Buncombe from another jurisdiction- you need to quarantine yourselves for 2 weeks upon arrival at your new location.



Are auto sales essential? In person auto sales are nonessential until April 9. Auto dealerships can show and sell vehicles virtually, and they may close and complete paperwork in processing as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygiene guidance. Auto repair and maintenance are essential services. If an auto dealership has a maintenance and service line on site, that line of operations may continue to operate.Is Realty essential? In person house showing is nonessential until April 9. Realtors can show and sell homes virtually.  They can also continue and complete any vital paperwork or legal processes to continue sales. In general, under the Minimum Business Operations clause, they can also send staff and contractors to houses to maintain and update their virtual inventory.Is Lawn Care essential? Lawn Care may operate under the minimum business operations clause, this means minimal staffing and as long as they are adhering to physical distancing and hygienic requirements. These social distancing requirement include travel to and from a jobsite, on the jobsite, and to lunch and breaks on jobsites. We want to ensure that all Buncombe County residents, whether on essential business or not, maintain their distance at 6ft.Is moving an essential function? Yes, moving is an essential function. If you haven’t yet scheduled your move, and you can delay it, that is recommended, but if not please ensure you are doing your very best to avoid close contact and sanitizing common-touch surfaces. If you are moving to another county or state, or you are moving to Buncombe from another jurisdiction- you need to quarantine yourselves for 2 weeks upon arrival at your new location.Buncombe County, United Way, and Asheville Chamber have formed a partnership to match in-kind donations with community organization needs. Learn more at 
www.handsonasheville.orgUpdated Case Count as of noon, 17 Buncombe County  residents test positiveNo new cases in visitors to Buncombe County12 residents and all 5 visitors have recovered from COVID-19 and have been released from isolationFurther clarification on Stay Safe-Stay Home mandateEmergency Services looking at a regional effortAsheville City and Buncombe County Schools helping students with social and emotional skillsUpdate from MissionHealthOne Buncome Relief Fund is launched Updated Case Count as of noon, 14 Buncombe County  residents test positive5 cases in visitors to Buncombe County11 residents and all 5 visitors have recovered from COVID-19 and have been released from isolationPlease see the 
Supplemental Declaration
 titled Stay Safe-Stay Home to find out if your business is deemed essential or non-essential.Understand the intent of Stay Home-Stay Safe. The point is encourage social distancing to reduce the spread and impact of COVID-19. Updated case count at 2:30 p.m., 13 Buncombe County residents test positive5 cases in visitors to the CountyBoard of Commissioners Chairman Newman signs second 
Supplemental Declaration to Local State of Emergency
. This declaration directs all Buncombe County residents to “Stay Home – Stay Safe” and to limit movements outside of their homes that are not deemed essentialOne Buncombe COVID-19 Rapid Relief Fund set to launch Friday, more information to come.Updated case count at 2:30 p.m., 12 Buncombe County residents test positive.4 cases in visitors to the County.Confirmed evidence of community spread. Now is the time to stay home.Public Health continues to investigate models from around the globe and will move forward to add an additional supplement declaration with a Stay Home, Stay Safe Mandate to reduce opportunity for close contact during these next few weeks. Further information will be available Wednesday, March 25.Telemedicine options are available at missionhealth.orgInnovation and dynamic responses are also happening in our community, such as virtual town hall and special hours at some grocery stores for vulnerable populations.Further guidance for restaurants providing takeout will be posted by 5 p.m.


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18637


Community COVID-19 Testing InformationCOVID-19 testing is available for people who think that they may have COVID-19. The 
Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self Checker
 can help you assess whether or not you need to be tested for COVID-19.If your primary care provider does not offer COVID-19 testing, they can refer you to an option that works for you. Please go online or call ahead to schedule a visit and to confirm the location of the testing site.Testing guidance for COVID-19 has expanded to encourage the following individuals to get tested for COVID-19 at one of the locations listed below or at a community testing site. Testing is suggested for the following: If you have private insurance, payment should be covered by your insurance company. If you are uninsured, please ask about the CARES Act which may cover the cost of the medical provider assessment and testing for COVID-19. Some providers offer charity care assistance or sliding scale options for payment. Check with your provider about these details.Contact your healthcare provider to see if testing is available at their clinic. 
If not, click here to find a clinic that offers testing. People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. Symptoms Include:Children have similar symptoms
 to adults and generally have mild illness.This list does not include all symptoms. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you.

 When to Seek Medical AttentionIf you have any of these emergency warning signs* for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately:Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: Notify the operator that you have, or think you might have, COVID-19. If possible, put on a cloth face covering before medical help arrives.Testing is available to everyone regardless of their race, income, gender, ethnicity, citizenship status, or religion. COVID-19 testing will not impact your ability to receive future public assistance benefits or public charge status.Permanent Buncombe County community-based testing sites are listed below. While everyone can get tested for COVID-19 at these sites, it is most important for those who are symptomatic or who have been in close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19 to get tested.People who do not live in Buncombe County or North Carolina should contact the Communicable Disease Hotline at (828) 250-5300 to find more information about testing prior to showing up at the community testing sites. These testing sites will be active on their respective days, from June 30th to September 6th. The sites are designed as drive-thru but people who walk up for will not be turned away. To prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 to older or high risk adults, it is important that people who work in long term care or congregate care settings get tested for COVID-19. Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles on Tuesdays and the Buncombe County Sports Park on Thursdays, from 9:30- 10:30 am.We ask that the public excercise patience while waiting to be tested. It is also important to wear a face covering and keep at least 6' between yourself and others if outside of your car. It takes about 7 days from the date the sample is submitted for testing to release the test results. However, this time frame may vary based of laboratory demand at a given time. Results will be released electronically on the LabCorp Mobile App. You should stay at home, away from others, until you have received your test results if you have COVID-19 symptoms or came into close-contact with someone who has tested positive. More information on how to access test results can be found 
here
. It is important to follow the steps outlined in the attached documents after your COVID-19 test. COVID-19 Testing Sites for Buncombe County Residents:  East Buncombe

	2217 US 70 Hwy., Swannanoa (Ingles Parking Lot)

	Every Tuesday, Beginning June 30th

	Testing will be from 10:30 am until 1:30 pmEarly testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles from 9:30- 10:30 am.South West Buncombe

	58 Apac Dr., Asheville (Buncombe County Sports Park)

	Every Thursday, beginning July 2nd

	Testing will be from 10:30 am until 1:30 pmEarly testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Sports Park from 9:30- 10:30 am.Central Buncombe

	AB Tech, Genevieve Circle, Asheville (Allied Health Parking Lot)

	Every Sunday, Beginning July 5th  

	Testing will be from 1:30 pm until 5:30 pmTesting sites are outdoors and will be canceled in the event of storms based on notification from the National Weather Service. Notice of cancellation will be made 1 hour in advance of opening on the day of testing. Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19Anyone (with or without symptoms) who is a close contact of a known positive caseAnyone (with or without symptoms) in the following groups who believes they may have been exposed to COVID-19:
	


Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)


Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


Historically marginalized populations


Healthcare workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)


Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain


People who attended mass gatherings (protests, marches, rallies, funerals, parties, cookouts, etc.), particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancing



Persons who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)Persons who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)Historically marginalized populationsHealthcare workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)Front-line and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction workers, food processing plant workers, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintainPeople who attended mass gatherings (protests, marches, rallies, funerals, parties, cookouts, etc.), particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancingFever or chillsCoughShortness of breath or difficulty breathingFatigueMuscle or body achesHeadacheNew loss of taste or smellSore throatCongestion or runny noseNausea or vomitingDiarrheaTrouble breathingPersistent pain or pressure in the chestNew confusion or inability to arouseBluish lips or face

East Buncombe

	2217 US 70 Hwy., Swannanoa (Ingles Parking Lot)

	Every Tuesday, Beginning June 30th

	Testing will be from 10:30 am until 1:30 pm






Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles from 9:30- 10:30 am.







Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Swannanoa Ingles from 9:30- 10:30 am.



South West Buncombe

	58 Apac Dr., Asheville (Buncombe County Sports Park)

	Every Thursday, beginning July 2nd

	Testing will be from 10:30 am until 1:30 pm






Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Sports Park from 9:30- 10:30 am.







Early testing hours for staff of long term and congregate care facilities will be offered at the Sports Park from 9:30- 10:30 am.



Central Buncombe

	AB Tech, Genevieve Circle, Asheville (Allied Health Parking Lot)

	Every Sunday, Beginning July 5th  

	Testing will be from 1:30 pm until 5:30 pm




Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/countycenter/news-detail.aspx?id=18653





Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/covid-19/default.aspx#sec-questions-concerns




What should I do if I feel like I may have COVID-19?





Where can I get tested for COVID-19?





What should I do if I see businesses not complying with Buncombe County’s face covering mandate?





How does someone apply for unemployment benefits?





Where can information be found about local businesses that are currently hiring?





Are parks open?





Can we still exercise outside?





What businesses are allowed to open in Phase 2?





What is the current guidance for lodging?





How can I protect my employees and customers once I reopen?





What if one of my employees tests positive for COVID-19 or thinks they may have COVID-19?





Why are hotels staying open?





What can restaurants do to keep take out safe?





Is travel encouraged?





Do I have to wear a face covering in North Carolina? 





Can I travel from North Carolina to another state?





Do I have to quarantine during my visit to North Carolina?





How do I know what businesses are open?





Still have questions? 






Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/covid-19/default.aspx#sec-questions-concerns



							Click 
here
 to link to the Buncombe Ready COVID-19 Self-Checker.
						
							Click 
here
 for information about testing in Buncombe County.
						
						If a business is not complying with the Buncombe County mandate to wear face coverings, first send your complaint to store management to let them know that wearing face coverings is an essential part of slowing the spread of COVID-19 and making sure that all members of our community feel safe in pubic.
						
							For information about filing for unemployment assistance please visit the 
North Carolina Department of Commerce Employment Security Division
.
						
							To find information about current local employment opportunities, please visit 
NC Works



	Click 
here
 for information on Buncombe County Parks.


Click 
here
 for information on Asheville City Parks.



We encourage all residents to enjoy time outside. As long as all residents are practicing social distancing, maintaining proper sanitation, and staying home if you are sick. To learn more about these guideline, please visit the CDC’s website at 
cdc.gov
.


						Click 
here
 to see our Phase 2 Transition Guidance
						

Hotels and motels, Bed and Breakfasts, short-term rentals less than 30 days, homestays and campgrounds may book and schedule leisure travel reservations. 


The occupancy of lodging establishments with lodging capacities of greater than 10 units is limited to 50%. Establishments with capacities of 10 units or less may book to 100% occupancy. 


All lodging establishments must wait 24 hours after a room becomes vacant before beginning cleaning and disinfection. 


Cleaning of rooms after a stay must comply with the guidance outlined in 
E0141


						Click 
here
 to see the CDC’s public health recommendation for business that are reopening.

						
						Click 
here
 for a comprehensive outline about responding to COVID-19 in your business.

						

Hotels and motels, bed and breakfasts, short-term rentals, less than 30 days, homestays and campgrounds are instructed to cancel currently scheduled leisure travel reservations and refrain from scheduling future leisure and other non-essential travel reservations. This order shall remain in effect until such time as it is repealed, replaced, or rescinded. Buncombe County residents or any employee who works for a business or organization defined as essential may stay in any lodging. However, the operator of that lodging MUST document the essential occupation and nature of business of any new resident making reservation from outside the county. In addition, any visitors arriving to Buncombe County from outside the state who are not travelling on essential business are required to self-quarantine in their residence for 14 days upon arrival. This means if someone is travelling through the state and gets a hotel room for the night, they must quarantine. If someone is planning to be in town for a week, they must quarantine for the duration of their visit. If someone is coming to a second home or vacation home of some sort in Buncombe County, they must also selfquarantine for 14 days before entering the community. This means no trips to the grocery store or other essential retail.



All restaurants still offering takeout service in Buncombe County are mandated to follow proper food preparation standards. These guidelines include:




Continually disinfect frequently-touched surfaces using guidelines provided by the CDC.


Delegate all staff to have separate responsibilities in order to reduce the risk of transmission and ensure every facility is maintaining proper social distancing practices.


Employees will package all meal items, (including drink) for customers to reduce the number of people touching items in the facility.


All staff should be wearing disposable gloves that are changed when employee changes task, gloves are ripped, or gloves become visibly soiled. Hand washing will occur when gloves are changed.





No. COVID-19 is still here and cases continue to increase. We are encouraging all residents to stay in their homes as much as possible, especially when sick, to reduce the impact of COVID-19 in our community.



Yes. According to executive order 147, all North Carolinians and visitors to North Carolina are mandated to wear a face- covering while in public spaces. Wearing a face covering is also required outside, when maintaining a distance of 6 feet between yourself and others is not possible. Exceptions to this rule include people with medical conditions that prevent covering the mouth and nose, children under 11, and people who are walking or exercising outside. Wearing a face covering is a simple, yet powerful way to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and keeps our residents and visitors safe. Click here to learn more about face coverings. Click here to learn more about the exceptions to this mandate.



Yes. All states are open to travelers but some states and counties may still have special requirement for visitors. Be sure to call the health department for the county in which you are visiting to make sure you understand their restrictions. You could also visit their website. If there is no special guidance, it is still important to wear a face covering, wash your hands, and practice physical distancing when out in public. If there is special guidance, make sure you fully understand it and plan ahead. Click here for general traveling tips and considerations during COVID-19.



No. There is no national quarantine order at this time so inter-county and inter-state travel is allowed. Visitors to North Carolina and Buncombe County are required to wear a face covering in indoor and outdoor public spaces. We also ask that you follow all public health guidance by maintaining physical distancing, washing your hands regularly, and staying home if you are sick.



Call ahead to make sure the business you would like to visit is open to the public. While many businesses have decided to open up, many are still closed. Be sure to call ahead to confirm that they are open before making the trip.



Click 
here
 to contact the Buncombe County Convention and Visitors Bureau.




Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/covid-19/general-preparedness.aspx


These simple steps can help you prepare your home, minimize your risk of exposure, and protect others from the Coronavirus (COVID-19): It is important that everyone take steps to reduce the spread of novel coronavirus, especially to protect those who are most vulnerable. Steps you can take to prevent spread of flu and the common cold will also help prevent coronavirus:Symptoms may appear 
2-14 days after exposure to the virus
. People with these symptoms or combinations of symptoms may have COVID-19:Or at least two of these symptoms:Those at high risk for severe COVID-19 related health consequences include:Medications:
 make sure you have enough medication, like blood pressure pills, to last for two weeks. Aside from prescriptions, make sure you have pain reliever (ibuprofen), stomach remedies, and cold and cough medicines.Face Covering:
 We strongly recommend that all residents wear a face covering when in public.Cleaning Supplies:
Clean frequently touched surfaces in your house – such as kitchen counters and bathroom faucets – several times a day. Keep “high touch surfaces” in your house clean with household cleaning sprays or wipes.Wash Hands:
Before touching common household surfaces, petting your animal, or hugging your loved ones, it is important to wash your hand with warm, soapy water for at least 20 seconds. Hand Sanitizer:
 carry and use alcohol-based hand sanitizer.Flu Shot:
 if you haven’t already gotten your flu shot yet, it’s still a good idea to get one.Other:
Keep your pantry stocked with a 2 weeks supply of non perishable foods and drinks.Wash your hands often with soap and water, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing. If soap and water are not available, use hand sanitizer.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Avoid close contact with people who are sick.Stay home when you are sick.Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.Use a facemask if you are showing symptoms.Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.Follow CDC’s travel guidance.CoughShortness of breath or difficulty breathingFeverChillsRepeated shaking with chillsFatigueMuscle or body achesHeadacheNew loss of taste or smellSore throatConfusion or dizzinessCongestion or runny noseNausea or vomitingDiarrheaPeople ages 65 and olderPeople with weak immune systemsPeople with preexisting conditions like cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, hypertension, and cancer.Healthcare workers caring for patients with COVID-19Travelers returning from affected locations where community spread is occurring.All CDC Resources

CDC Resources in Languages Other than English

Prevention and Treatment of COVID-19
                            How COVID-19 SpreadsInformation for Schools, Communities, and Businesses
                            Information on TravelingInformation on Cases of COVID-19 in the United StatesFor an Updated Global Situation Summary
                            


Scraping from https://www.buncombecounty.org/covid-19/health-provider-information.aspx


COVID-19 UpdateStay up to date 
with the most current information.Testing through the NC State Laboratory of Public Health
 (NCSLPH) remains available 
with prior approval by the epidemiologist on call
 due to limited availability of testing. Patients meeting the following criteria for a Person Under Investigation (PUI) will be considered for testing at NCSLPH:
								


Fever OR signs/symptoms of lower respiratory illness (e.g., cough, shortness of breath) in any person, including healthcare workers, who has had close contact with a laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 patient within 14 days of symptom onset. 


Fever AND signs/symptoms of lower respiratory illness (e.g., cough, shortness of breath) AND negative PCR influenza test in any person with history of travel from affected geographic areas within 14 days of symptom onset. 


Fever with unexplained acute lower respiratory illness (e.g., pneumonia, ARDS) requiring hospitalization where no source of exposure has been identified with, at a minimum, negative PCR influenza test. 



Fever OR signs/symptoms of lower respiratory illness (e.g., cough, shortness of breath) in any person, including healthcare workers, who has had close contact with a laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 patient within 14 days of symptom onset. Fever AND signs/symptoms of lower respiratory illness (e.g., cough, shortness of breath) AND negative PCR influenza test in any person with history of travel from affected geographic areas within 14 days of symptom onset. Fever with unexplained acute lower respiratory illness (e.g., pneumonia, ARDS) requiring hospitalization where no source of exposure has been identified with, at a minimum, negative PCR influenza test. Testing through commercial laboratories
  is now available to clinics in Buncombe County. Do 
not
 send these patients to outpatient lab facilities.
								


Testing is not recommended for asymptomatic persons. 


Follow specimen collection and shipping requirements of the commercial lab.


Prior authorization from NC DPH is not required for commercial lab testing, 
BUT patients being tested will be considered a PUI and must be isolated either at home or in a hospital based on their need for care. 




For all patients being tested through a commercial lab who do not require hospitalization, providers should, at the time of testing:
											




sign 2 copies of the attached document titled “NCDPH COVID-19 Guidance for PUI Home Isolation”, giving one to the patient and submitting one to the patient’s local health department (for Buncombe County residents, fax document to 828-250-6169),


give the patient the attached “NCDPH Infection Prevention Recs for Home Isolation” and “Visitor Log” documents, and 


complete and submit the attached “CDC COVID-19 PUI and Case Report Form” to the patient’s local health department at the time the test is ordered. This document can also be found here. (For Buncombe County residents, fax form to 828-250-6169.)










Isolation can be discontinued if 1) the initial test is negative, or 2) by public health officials on the basis of 2 negative test results conducted on specimens collected at least 24 hours apart.



Testing is not recommended for asymptomatic persons. Follow specimen collection and shipping requirements of the commercial lab.Prior authorization from NC DPH is not required for commercial lab testing, 
BUT patients being tested will be considered a PUI and must be isolated either at home or in a hospital based on their need for care. 




For all patients being tested through a commercial lab who do not require hospitalization, providers should, at the time of testing:
											




sign 2 copies of the attached document titled “NCDPH COVID-19 Guidance for PUI Home Isolation”, giving one to the patient and submitting one to the patient’s local health department (for Buncombe County residents, fax document to 828-250-6169),


give the patient the attached “NCDPH Infection Prevention Recs for Home Isolation” and “Visitor Log” documents, and 


complete and submit the attached “CDC COVID-19 PUI and Case Report Form” to the patient’s local health department at the time the test is ordered. This document can also be found here. (For Buncombe County residents, fax form to 828-250-6169.)







For all patients being tested through a commercial lab who do not require hospitalization, providers should, at the time of testing:
											




sign 2 copies of the attached document titled “NCDPH COVID-19 Guidance for PUI Home Isolation”, giving one to the patient and submitting one to the patient’s local health department (for Buncombe County residents, fax document to 828-250-6169),


give the patient the attached “NCDPH Infection Prevention Recs for Home Isolation” and “Visitor Log” documents, and 


complete and submit the attached “CDC COVID-19 PUI and Case Report Form” to the patient’s local health department at the time the test is ordered. This document can also be found here. (For Buncombe County residents, fax form to 828-250-6169.)



sign 2 copies of the attached document titled “NCDPH COVID-19 Guidance for PUI Home Isolation”, giving one to the patient and submitting one to the patient’s local health department (for Buncombe County residents, fax document to 828-250-6169),give the patient the attached “NCDPH Infection Prevention Recs for Home Isolation” and “Visitor Log” documents, and complete and submit the attached “CDC COVID-19 PUI and Case Report Form” to the patient’s local health department at the time the test is ordered. This document can also be found here. (For Buncombe County residents, fax form to 828-250-6169.)Isolation can be discontinued if 1) the initial test is negative, or 2) by public health officials on the basis of 2 negative test results conducted on specimens collected at least 24 hours apart.