Scraping from https://durhamnc.gov/4013/City-of-Durham-COVID-19-Updates-Resource



 
HomeDepartmentsDepartments G-ZOffice of Public AffairsCurrent Issues & InitiativesCity of Durham COVID-19 Updates & Resources











City of Durham COVID-19 Updates & Resources		






As Durham, the state of North Carolina, and our entire country face the unknowns of COVID-19, the City’s top priority is to maintain essential services for our community while protecting the health and safety of our residents and employees.Current StatusDurham is under a local Safer-at-Home Order until further notice.Most City facilities remain closed to the public; find service and facility updates below.View the City’s latest news related to COVID-19.



 
 




   
 
 
 















Understanding the Safer-at-Home Order: What am I allowed to do? What is open?
 





Check the current status of frequently used City services and facilities.
 





Find resources for residents and businesses recovering from COVID-19.
 






  
 
 





City Restoration Updates as of June 30, 2020As the City begins the process of gradually and carefully reopening, when interacting with City staff or visiting City facilities, the public must follow the social distancing and sanitation guidelines as defined in the Durham Stay-at-Home Order. This includes wearing a face covering and maintaining a six-foot distance between yourself and others.The following updates are subject to change as the COVID-19 situation continues to evolve.City ServicesTrash/Recycling Curbside Pickup Operating as normal | View Details Bulky Item Curbside PickupPlace request through Durham One Call | View Details Yard Waste Curbside PickupModified biweekly service | View DetailsWater Billing & Water ServicesAccount cutoffs currently suspended | View DetailsPlanning & Inspection Services (DSC)Service changes in place | View DetailsDurham One CallAssistance available via phone or online request Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. | View DetailsGoDurham Transportation ServicesSome route/schedule changes in place | View DetailsParking ServicesGates to all parking facilities openMany on-street metered parking spaces converted to curbside delivery zonesView Details Emergency Services - Fire, Police, 911Operating as normalView Fire and Police Details



 
 
 





City FacilitiesCity Hall and Other City FacilitiesClosed to publicDevelopment Services Center (DSC)The DSC lobby is closed to walk-in customers through at least August 3 | View Details Durham Parks & Recreation Facilities (DPR)City dog parks will begin reopening starting June 1 for dogs with a current dog park tagIndoor and outdoor pools closed until further noticeCity lakes (Lake Michie and Little River) open starting May 22 with limited operations and capacities - review details before visitingTennis courts, pickle ball courts, disc golf courses open starting May 18Parks trails, and green spaces open (with exception of C.M. Herndon)All other DPR facilities closed to publicView DPR Details Park Durham Customer Service CenterClosed to public | View DetailsWaste Disposal and Recycling Center and Household Hazardous Waste Center Open to the public as of May 18 with new protocols in place | View Details



 
 
 





City Meetings & EventsCurrently, most City events are being held virtually, or being cancelled or postponed until further notice. Please check the City’s calendar or contact the event organizer to confirm changes.City Council Meetings & Work SessionsMeetings held virtually through June | View CalendarBoards, Committees, and CommissionsAll meetings are being held virtually or suspended through August 31, 2020 | View Calendar Durham Parks & Recreation Events (DPR)All programs, activities, and events are canceled or postponed until further notice | View Details



 
 
 




   
 
 
 









 
 





Mayor Steve Schewel’s Day 57 ReportOn Thursday, May 7, Mayor Schewel issued an update to the community 57 days after doctors identified the first COVID-19 infection in Durham, and nearly six weeks since he issued his Stay-At-Home Order. Watch the mayor’s latest message that shares how we create a safe path to get people back to work.Council Member Javiera Caballero delivers the Day 57 Report in Spanish



 
 
 




   
 
 
 





Doing Business with the City RemotelyWhile the City continues to provide essential services to Durham residents, we ask that residents observe social distancing guidelines and avoid in-person contact as much as possible. Below are some of the ways you can still engage and do business with the City:Pay your water bill online, by phone, or by mail at no additional charge Learn moreSubmit a Durham One Call service request online or by phone Learn moreView your trash/recycle schedule and get updates through the Durham Rollout App, available from Google Play/App StoreSign up for City news and alertsFollow @CityofDurhamNC on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube



 
 



   
 
 
 





COVID-19 Official ResourcesTo stay abreast of the COVID-19 situation in Durham and how to help reduce the potential spread of this virus, residents are encouraged to visit official public health resources including the Durham County Department of Public Health, state, and federal agencies.



 
 
 















Durham County Department of Public Health Website

 





North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services Website

 





Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Website

 






  
 
 








Scraping from https://durhamnc.gov/4019/Stay-at-Home-Order-FAQs



 
HomeDepartmentsDepartments G-ZOffice of Public AffairsCurrent Issues & InitiativesCity of Durham COVID-19 Updates & ResourcesStay-at-Home Order FAQs











Safer-at-Home Order FAQs		






The City and County appreciate your effort to comply with this Order. With everyone’s cooperation, we hope to control the virus quickly so that life can soon return to normal.Current StatusAs of Thursday, July 9 at 5 p.m., the 9th Amendment to Durham’s Safer-at-Home Order is in effect until rescinded. While mostly adopting Governor Roy Cooper’s statewide Executive Order 147, there are some more stringent requirements for Durham residents and visitors.View the July 9 press release and Safer-at-Home Order (PDF)Governor Roy Cooper’s statewide Executive Order 147 (PDF)View Mayor’s Adoption of Safer-at-Home Order in English and Spanish (PDF) 



 
 




   
 
 
 




   
 
 
 





Understanding Durham’s Safer-at-Home OrderAs of July 9, 2020, Durham’s Safer-at-Home Order no longer differs from North Carolina’s Phase Two Extension with the following exceptions:Employer screenings now include the additional symptoms identified by the CDC for COVID-19.Durham is maintaining more restrictive mask requirements.Retail establishments must post signage advising people to wear a mask and maintain social distancing.There are increased standards for Skilled Nursing Facilities.As City and County governments reopen services, including open meetings, both governments will consult with the Durham County Department of Public Health and place limits on in-person attendance/participation as necessary to reduce the risk of virus transmission.Authorization has been granted to the Durham City-County Planning Department Director to allow for the suspension of certain provisions of the UDO in order to facilitate site plans and temporary use permits related to COVID-19 response and business recovery.Local universities have been granted some leeway to house additional students due to the cancellation of study abroad programs.



 
 
 













More About North Carolina Phase TwoVisit the State’s website for additional information on Phase Two, including FAQs and guidelines for common activities and businesses. Visit NC.gov.







Complete the Business Safety ChecklistComplete the checklist in English or Spanish to get a customized poster to display the steps you are taking to keep employees and customers safe. Visit BackOnTheBull.com.







Wear a Face Covering + Shop LocalFind out where to purchase face coverings from local producers for yourself, your family, or your organization. Visit DurhamHasYouCovered.com.







Next
Previous




  
 
 




   
 
 
 





FAQs for Durham’s JuLY 9 AmendmentHow is the Order being enforced?The Durham Police Department (DPD) and Durham County Sheriff’s Office are enforcing the Order through education, dialogue, and seeking voluntary cooperation from all residents and businesses inside the city and county limits. If voluntary cooperation is not achieved, DPD and the Sheriff’s Office are equipped to enforce these restrictions through criminal charges. Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by this Order shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor in accordance with G.S. 14-288.20A.To report Stay-at-Home Order violations for investigation, call the Durham Emergency Communications Center non-emergency phone number at 919-560-4600.Do NOT call the non-emergency phone number for general inquiries or questions about the Order. If your question is not answered on this FAQ webpage, contact Durham One Call at (919) 560-1200 for assistance Monday-Friday between 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.What does it mean for businesses to “self-certify"? Self-certifying means businesses are voluntarily agreeing to follow a set of best practices based on guidance by public health experts for reducing the spread of COVID-19. Businesses will have the opportunity to demonstrate they have self-certified by publicly and prominently displaying at their place of business a checklist of safety guidelines that the COVID-19 Recovery and Renewal Task Force has developed in collaboration with local experts. The checklist will include both a common set of best practices we expect of all gathering places as well as optional industry-specific practices. How do I complete self-certification for my business?Visit BackOnTheBull.com to complete the self-certification checklist in English or Spanish.The process will entail downloading and printing a self-certification checklist for your industry and posting it prominently in a place in your businesses where all customers will see it upon entering. The checklist will serve as a reminder to our businesses of the practices they are committing to follow. Prominently displaying it will encourage accountability to business patrons who will know what they should expect upon entering the establishment. 



 
 
 














city services & Facility updates








community & Business resources










 
 
 








Scraping from https://www.dconc.gov/home/showdocument?id=32548


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://durhamnc.gov/DocumentCenter/View/32522/City-of-Durham-Mayor-Emergency-9th-amendment


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://durhamnc.gov/DocumentCenter/View/32574/City-of-Durham-Mayor-Emergency-Dec-and-Adoption-of-County-9th-Amended-Order-Spanish


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://durhamnc.gov/4066/Community-Business-Resources



 
HomeDepartmentsDepartments G-ZOffice of Public AffairsCurrent Issues & InitiativesCity of Durham COVID-19 Updates & ResourcesCommunity & Business Resources











Community & Business Resources		





 
 
 
 





Durham Small Business Recovery Fund ProgramCity Council has authorized the establishment of the Durham Small Business Recovery Fund program to offer grants and loans for small businesses adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Applications for both grants and loans will open on June 18.



 
 
 




 
 
 
 





End Hunger Durham: Food Resources and Food Locator MapEnd Hunger Durham provides information to connect the community to available food resources, including an interactive map to locate nearby pantries, grocery stores, and distribution sites.



 
 
 




 
 
 
 





Durham Business 360: Providing Small Business Resources and Support During COVID-19The City’s Office of Economic and Workforce Development is compiling recovery and relief resources to help small businesses, as well as ways the community can offer support. Visit Durham Business 360



 
 
 




 
 
 
 





Support East Durham Through Communities in PartnershipCommunities in Partnership, a non-profit dedicated to developing grassroots leadership and community engagement in East Durham, is raising resources for small business support and food distribution.



 
 
 




 
 
 
 





Coronavirus Data and VisualizationsThe City’s Technology Solutions Department’s GIS and Open Data programs are using public health data to share COVID-19 data and resources in a visual format for the Durham community. View local COVID-19 data



 
 
 




 
 
 
 





Discover Durham Shares Ways to Support Local BusinessesFind ways to support Durham’s local businesses while practicing social distancing - shop online, order takeout, explore virtual events and activities, and more. Visit Discover Durham



 
 
 




 
 
 
 





Don’t Miss Out on Your $1,200 IRS Economic Impact PaymentThe City of Durham is helping residents access IRS economic impact payments (some times referred to as "stimulus checks"). The website, www.getyour1200durham.org, is a resource to help residents avoid scams and learn about steps they can take to make sure they receive IRS economic impact payments if eligible. The City is not providing tax assistance, but this website will offer guidance on steps residents can take and on other services that assist them in our community as they become available. Please note that this is a federal program and any questions beyond what is provided on this site should be directed to the IRS.



 
 
 








Scraping from https://durhamnc.gov/4014/COVID-19-Coronavirus-Updates-for-City-Em



 
HomeDepartmentsDepartments G-ZOffice of Public AffairsCurrent Issues & InitiativesCity of Durham COVID-19 Updates & ResourcesCOVID-19 (Coronavirus) Updates & Resources for City Employees











COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Updates & Resources for City Employees		






As Durham, the state of North Carolina, and our entire country face the unknowns of COVID-19, the City’s top priority is to maintain essential services for our community while protecting the health and safety of our residents and employees.This page will continue to serve as a resource for City of Durham employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, providing guidance for both on-site and remote work.



 
 
 





LATEST UPDATES



 
 
 





City Hall is slated to officially reopen to the public in a limited capacity on Tuesday, July 21. Learn more.Employees are no longer required to report personal travel details to HR, as the Temporary Personal Travel Policy has officially expired as of Tuesday, June 30. The question about travel has also been removed from the Employee Wellness Screening form. Learn more.



 
 
 





City Updates



 
 
 




 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 









 
 
 





Policies & Guidance for City of Durham EmployeesWhether working at home or out in the community, all of us are adjusting to the "new normal" of the COVID-19 pandemic. The City of Durham has implemented a number of temporary policies and other official guidance to ensure employees can continue to do their jobs during this time in a safe and effective manner.



 
 
 





Overview of Guidelines for Employees



 
 
 




   
 
 




1. Face Coverings & MasksAll employees must wear a face covering when in common areas of City facilities or anywhere social distancing is not possible. Read more.



 
 




   
 
 




2. Social DistancingSocial distancing should be practiced at all times. In the limited instances where social distancing is not possible, a face covering must be worn. Read more.



 
 




   
 
 




3. IllnessEmployees should stay at home if they are feeling ill, even with symptoms unrelated to COVID-19. Read more.



 
 
 




   
 
 




4. Wellness ScreeningAll employees must complete a wellness screening before reporting to on-site work. The form should be answered truthfully, as your responses will determine whether or not you are cleared to come into work. Read more.



 
 




   
 
 




5. Cleaning of Personal WorkspacesThe General Services Department will be thoroughly cleaning and disinfecting common areas and surfaces, but employees are responsible for cleaning and disinfecting their personal work areas and equipment. Read more.



 
 




   
 
 




6. Taking LeaveBecause liberal leave is no longer in effect with the expiration of the Temporary Leave & School Closures Policy, employees should follow normal leave policies when requesting time off to self-isolate, care for dependents, etc. Eligible employees may also qualify for COVID and/or FFCRA leave. Link coming soon.



 
 
 




   
 


   
 


   
 
 




7. Sharing VehiclesNo more than two individuals are permitted to share a City vehicle at one time. When sharing a vehicle, masks must be worn at all times. Read more.



 



8. TeleworkingEmployees are permitted to telework during the COVID-19 pandemic at the discretion of their supervisor and if job requirements allow. Read more.



 



9. Virtual CollaborationMicrosoft Teams and Zoom are the only TS-sanctioned tools for virtual collaboration. Read more.



 
 




Complete Policies & GuidancePlease click through the following tabs to review the City of Durham’s official COVID-19 policies and guidance for employees:



 
 




 HUMAN Resources
 RISK MANAGEMENT
 purchasing
 Technology Solutions




HUMAN Resources




Temporary Employee WellnessTemporary Business TravelFFCRA Emergency Sick FMLA LeaveCOMING SOON: Visit Human Resources’  COVID-19 page for more information on HR’s temporary policies and other related resources.





RISK MANAGEMENT




COVID-19 Wellness Screening RequirementsGuidance on Mask UseGuidance on Multi-Passenger Vehicle Use





purchasing




PPE & Cleaning Supply Request Procedure: The Finance Department’s Purchasing Division has implemented a new process to coordinate the distribution of COVID-related PPE and cleaning supplies. Purchasing will operate a centralized supply distribution point out of City Hall, and will distribute supplies to each department on a weekly basis based on requests received by specific designees in each City department and division.All requests for PPE and cleaning supplies must go through these designees. Please see your department/division designee to receive supplies from the central store at City Hall.





Technology Solutions




Standards for Virtual Collaboration (COMING SOON)Work from Home Resource & Service Requests (COMING SOON)Guidance on At-Home Use of City-Issued Hardware (COMING SOON)IT Acceptable Use Policy*IT Security Policy** Note that these are permanent policies that, while applicable in a work from home environment, are not specific to COVID-19. Employees are encouraged to review these policies to ensure that all remote work falls in line with City IT policy.







 
 
 









 
 
 





Temporary HR Policy Timeline



 
 
 





Current Policies



 
 
 









Policy Name
Effective Date
Last Updated
Expiration Date




Temporary Employee Wellness
March 13, 2020
May 21, 2020
July 31, 2020


Temporary Business Travel
March 13, 2020
June 17, 2020
July 31, 2020


FFCRA Emergency Sick FMLA Leave
April 1, 2020 
April 1, 2020
December 31, 2020





  
 
 





Expired Policies



 
 
 









Policy Name
Effective Date
Last Updated
Expiration Date




Temporary Leave & School Closures
March 30, 2020
May 31, 2020
May 31, 2020


Temporary Premium Pay
March 30, 2020
June 19, 2020
June 19, 2020


Temporary Personal Travel
March 13, 2020
June 30, 2020
June 30, 2020





  
 








 
 
 





Communication With EmployeesThe City uses a variety of methods to communicate with employees, but this page and the channels below will be the primary means of communication during the COVID-19 pandemic:



 
 
 




   
 
 




City WeekCity Week, our weekly employee newsletter, is your best source for reliable, up-to-date communication from the City during COVID-19.All City of Durham employees are signed up to receive City Week each Monday to their DurhamNC.gov email address. If you are not receiving City Week to your email and would like to, please email Hannah Watts.You can also sign up to receive City Week by text alert.



 
 




   
 
 




PAPAPAPA (Public Affairs Priority Alerts) is the City’s emergency notification system used to provide time-sensitive information and emergency updates to employees, including those related to COVID-19 and its impact on City employees. You can expect to receive PAPA alerts via email, phone, and/or text depending on your personal settings.To learn more about PAPA view the PAPA How-to Guide (PDF), including how to update your contact information on page 7.



 
 




   
 
 




COMING SOON: Human Resources’ COVID-19 PageVisit Human Resources’ COVID-19 page for HR Connect hours, more detailed information about HR policies, an archive of all HR communication shared in City Week, and more.



 
 
 









 
 
 





Additional Resources



 
 
 




 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 








Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/services/communicable-diseases/communicable-diseases/coronavirus-disease-2020








Services » Communicable Diseases


Coronavirus Disease 2019


Print
Feedback


Share & Bookmark
Press Enter to show all options, press Tab go to next option


Email

Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Reddit



Font Size:
+
-













 Haz Clic Aquí para Información en Español
Durham County Department of Public Health modified hours of operation during COVID-19 State of Emergency
The Durham County Department of Public Health (DCoDPH) is coordinating with the North Carolina Department of Health Human Services (NCDHHS) as NCDHHS leads COVID-19 monitoring and preparedness efforts for the state.  On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic.
 COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions.


Durham County COVID-19 hotline: 919-635-8150.




 












 Individuals & Families



  
Colleges, Universities, & Schools



 
Businesses & Employers





 Healthcare Providers



 Long-Term Care Facilities




 Community Events & Mass Gatherings





 Childcare Centers
            



 Managing Overall Health
            



 Testing































           
              
Use the resources below to find accurate, up-to-date information and resources on COVID-19, including guidance for specific groups.





News Releases
DCoDPH News Releases
NCDHHS News Releases

Informational Overviews
Informational Overviews:
North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services (state)
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) (National) 

Subscribe for Emails

Join our mailing list(s) to receive daily updates on the latest COVID-19 information and guidance.

For the general public: https://bit.ly/2U4CLIq
For healthcare providers: https://bit.ly/2UtVsEe
For businesses, faith communities, & community agencies: https://bit.ly/394P9w7
Information in Spanish: https://bit.ly/3bhXwGr


COVID-19 Hotlines
Use the hotlines below for general information and updates on COVID-19. NC 211 can also refer callers to community resources for help with food, shelter, parenting, and more. These hotlines can NOT provide direct medical services.

North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services (available 24/7): 
Dial 2-1-1 or 888-892-1162, or text COVIDNC to 898211 to receive text updates.

Durham County Department of Public Health (available 8:30-5:00, Monday - Friday): 
919-635-8150
For media inquiries, contact: 
Dr. Alecia Smith
dcodphcommunications@gmail.com
 

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Frequently Asked Questions:

NCDHHS FAQs 
DCoDPH FAQs
CDC FAQs






                 
There are many ways to help Durham County residents affected by COVID-19! Click here to find volunteer and donation opportunities in Durham.




   
                                                                Social Media




NCDHHS (@NCDHHS)

NCDHHS Facebook | NCDHHS Twitter | NCDHHS Instagram


CDC (@CDCgov)

CDC Facebook | CDC Twitter | CDC Instagram


DCoDPH (@DurhamHealthNC)
 

DCoDPH Facebook | DCoDPH Twitter | DCoDPH Instagram






 

News Highlights





Stay-At-Home Order Extended to May 15
 To continue the effort to slow the spread of COVID-19, Durham City and County Governments announced new updates to their combined Stay-At-Home Order including an extension to May 15. View the full press release.
View the Stay-At-Home Order: English | Spanish

Mayor Schewel, Chair Jacobs Amend Durham City-County Stay-At-Home Order
Durham City and County Governments made additional updates to the unified Durham Stay-At-Home Order on Friday, April 17, 2020. The combined order is for all residents in response to the community spread of COVID-19. Overall, officials agree that most people in our community are doing well at social distancing and staying home according to both local and national guidelines designed to reduce the spread of the deadly disease. According to Mayor Steve Schewel and Durham Board of County Commissioners Chair Wendy Jacobs, the intended purpose of this update is intended to focus on three specific areas: Wearing Face Coverings, Rules for Farmers Markets, and New Guidelines for Realtors.
 Full news release: https://www.dconc.gov/Home/Components/News/News/6635/31?backlist=%2f 


City of Durham and Durham County Governments Combine and Amend Stay-At-Home Order
On April 4, 2020, in light of growing concerns regarding the community spread of COVID-19, City of Durham Mayor Steve Schewel and Durham County Board of Commissioners Chair (BOCC) Wendy Jacobs  combined and amended their Stay-At-Home Orders for all residents to further help stop the spread of this virus. The Order went into effect on Saturday, April 4 at 5 p.m

Durham County Issues Stay-At-Home Order
On Saturday, March 28, 2020, Chair of the Durham Board of County Commissioners Wendy Jacobs signed the Durham County Stay-At-Home Order in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) epidemic. The Durham County Stay-At-Home Order goes into effect at 5 p.m. on Sunday, March 29. The Order will remain in effect until April 30, 2020.

NC Issues Stay-At-Home Order
On March 27, 2020 Governor Roy Cooper ordered people in the state of North Carolina to stay at home for thirty days, until April 29, 2020, in another step to slow the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus. Governor Cooper’s Executive Order No. 121 takes effect on Monday, March 30 at 5:00 PM and reduces the size of gatherings to 10 people. The Order provides for essential businesses to continue to operate while prioritizing social distancing measures. The Order has the force of law and will be enforced in all 100 counties statewide. 

Durham County Declares State of Emergency
On March 15, 2020, Chair of the Board Wendy Jacobs signed a Declaration of State of Emergency in Durham County. The declaration was made following President of the United States Donald Trump’s declaration of a national emergency and Governor Roy Cooper’s Executive Order and the North Carolina State of Emergency issued in response to the pandemic state of Coronavirus (COVID-19). To read Durham County’s Declaration of State of Emergency, visit https://www.dconc.gov/Home/ShowDocument?id=30562.

NC Declares State of Emergency
On March 10, 2020, Governor Roy Cooper declared a state of emergency to respond to COVID-19. The declaration activates the Emergency Operations Center to help agencies coordinate from one location and makes it easier to purchase needed medical supplies, protect consumers from price gouging, and increase county health departments’ access to state funds. 





           
Videos




Health Director Updates
Health Director Updates

June 26, 2020
June 19, 2020
June 12, 2020 
June 5, 2020 
May 29, 2020 
May 22, 2020 
May 15, 2020
May 8, 2020 
May 1, 2020 
April 24, 2020 
April 17, 2020 
April 10, 2020
April 2, 2020
March 28, 2020
March 20, 2020 


Información en Español

Reuniones en Grupos 
Pruebas de COVID-19 
Información Para Las Mujeres Embarazadas y Sus Bebes 
Plática con ISLA NC y el Director del Departamento de Salud
Qué debe saber sobre COVID-19
Qué sucede cuando está expuesto o se siente enferma
Distanciamiento social y otras maneras de protegerse
¿Cuáles son los síntomas de COVID-19?
Orden de Quedarse en Casa (22 de Mayo) 
Cómo usar una máscara
 





Press Conferences
DCoDPH & Durham Public Schools Joint Press Conference (March 13, 2020): Watch here. 

Other
 

How to Wear Cloth Masks 
#DoYourThingDurham, part 1! 
#DoYourThingDurham, part 2!






 
                     
Flyers & Handouts in English and Spanish 





NCDHHS
NCDHHS: 

Graphics and print materials




CDC
CDC: 

Graphics and print materials
Videos



DCoDPH
 DCoDPH:

Graphics and print materials







Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/services/communicable-diseases/coronavirus-disease-2019/covid-19-faqs








Services » Communicable Diseases » Coronavirus Disease 2019


COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions


Print
Feedback


Share & Bookmark
Press Enter to show all options, press Tab go to next option


Email

Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Reddit



Font Size:
+
-








COVID-19 Safer-At-Home Order Questions
View the  Safer-At-Home Order here.




What's in the latest Order?
Click here to see what's allowed and what's closed, and learn how the local order compares to the state.

Why is the Durham Order different from the state's?
Although Durham has done well in flattening the curve of cases of the virus and slowing its spread, we have recently had a significant increase in cases. We have recently had growth in our cases at twice the level of the state of North Carolina as a whole. In addition, our cases per capita are three times the per capita rate in Wake County. With these concerning trends, the city and county are being a bit more cautious than the state in our Safer-At-Home order. 


What does it mean for businesses to “self-certify? 
Self-certifying means businesses are voluntarily agreeing to follow a set of best practices based on guidance by public health experts for reducing the spread of COVID-19. Businesses will have the opportunity to demonstrate they have self-certified by publicly and prominently displaying at their place of business a checklist of safety guidelines that the task force will develop in collaboration with local experts. The checklist will include both a common set of best practices we expect of all gathering places as well as optional industry-specific practices.


How will the self-certification process work? Is there a form or statement that businesses much use or post?
The task force will soon release additional information about the process. The important thing to know now is that the process is voluntary and will not delay businesses from opening who are able to open under local orders.  The process will entail downloading and printing a self-certification checklist for your industry and posting it prominently in a place in your businesses where all customers will see it upon entering.  The checklist will serve as a reminder to our businesses of the practices they are committing to follow.  Prominently displaying it will encourage accountability to business patrons who will know what they should expect upon entering the establishment. 


Although the self-certification process is based on trust that businesses will comply, is there enforcement and to whom should noncompliance be reported?






This self-certification process is entirely voluntary. It is not required, so there will be no enforcement of it. Rather, the self-certification process is a way for businesses to give confidence to their customers, clients and employees that they are providing a safe place to work, shop and receive services. 






































Face Covering Questions




What is a cloth face covering?
A cloth face covering is a material that covers the nose and mouth. It can be secured to the head with ties or straps or simply wrapped around the lower face. It can be made of a variety of materials, such as cotton, silk, or linen.
A cloth face covering may be factory-made or sewn by hand or can be improvised from household items such as scarfs, T-shirts, sweatshirts or towels.
Ideally, a face covering has two or more layers. These face coverings are not intended for use by healthcare providers in the care of patients.
Surgical masks, procedure masks and N95 respirators are not recommended for general public use or use in community settings, as these should be reserved for specific high-risk occupational settings, health care providers and other medical first responders in a health care setting.

When should I wear a cloth face covering?


Face coverings are required in Durham County at any time you'll be in contact with other people who are not household members in public or private spaces where it is not possible to maintain social distance. 
 These spaces include grocery stores, pharmacies, business locations and public transit. But remember, face coverings do not replace social distancing! It is still important to keep 6 feet away from others, even while covering your face! 
As of June 26, 2020, face coverings are also required statewide.



What's the correct way to wear a cloth face covering?
When wearing your face coverings:


Wash your hands before putting on your face covering
Put it over your nose and mouth and secure it under your chin
Try to fit it snugly against the sides of your face
Make sure you can breathe easily

 
How To Wear Cloth Masks/Face Coverings (English): 

 
 
Cómo Usar Cubiertas de Tela (Español)


How should I care for a cloth face covering?
Wash your cloth face covering frequently, ideally after each use, or at least daily. Have a bag or bin to keep cloth face coverings in until they can be laundered with detergent and hot water and dried on a hot cycle. If you must re-wear your cloth face covering before washing, wash your hands immediately after putting it back on and avoid touching your face. Discard cloth face coverings that:

No longer cover the nose and mouth
Have stretched out or damaged ties or straps
Cannot stay on the face
Have holes or tears in the fabric






How well do cloth face coverings work to prevent spread of COVID-19?
Scientific evidence suggests that use of cloth face coverings by the public during a pandemic can help reduce disease transmission. Cloth face coverings can reduce the release of infectious particles into the air when someone speaks, coughs or sneezes.
Cloth face coverings are not a substitute for staying 6 feet apart, washing hands and staying home when ill.

Do I need to wear a face covering while exercising or walking outdoors?

No. If you are able to safely maintain at least 6 feet distance from others, you do not need to wear a face covering when exercising and walking outdoors.

Should children wear cloth face coverings?
CDC recommends all people 2 years of age and older wear a cloth face covering in public settings when around people outside of their household, especially when other social distancing measures are difficult to





COVID-19 General Questions




I am a medical provider. How should I report cases of COVID-19?
Report COVID-19 cases to the Durham County Department of Public Health by faxing the COVID-19 Reporting Form   to 919-560-7716. 

Where can I find COVID case data?
COVID case data, including demographic info like race and age, for the state can be found on the North Carolina Deparrtmenet of Health and Human Services website here: https://covid19.ncdhhs.gov/dashboard. 
 This data for Durham County can be found on our data dashboard here: https://durhampublichealth-durhamnc.hub.arcgis.com/

Where can I find COVID testing totals? 
Testing totals for the state can be found on the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services data dashboard here: https://covid19.ncdhhs.gov/dashboard/testing. Testing totals for Durham County are not available at this time. As new data becomes available, we will share it on our data dashboard. Stay tuned to our Facebook and Twitter and subscribe for email notifications for updates! 

Should I wear a mask?
Beginning April 20, 2020, all Durham County residents are required  to wear a clean face covering any time they are or will be in contact with other people who are not household members in public or private spaces where it is not possible to maintain social distance such as grocery stories, pharmacies, business location and public transit.  This is to protect people around you if you are infected but do not have symptoms. 
Surgical masks and N95 respirators are in short supply and should be reserved for healthcare workers or other medical first responders, as recommended by CDC guidance.'
For more information on how to make and wear cloth masks, click here.

Should I get tested?
NCDHHS guidance recommends the following people should consider getting teseted for COVID-19: 

Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19.
Close contacts of known positive cases, regardless of symptoms.
The following groups are some of the populations with higher risk of exposure or a higher risk of severe disease if they become infected. People in these groups should get tested if they believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19, whether or not they have symptoms.  
    
People who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp).
Historically marginalized populations who may be at higher risk for exposure.
Frontline and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction sites, processing plants, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain.
Health care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military).
People who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions).


People who have attended protests, rallies, or other mass gatherings could have been exposed to someone with COVID-19 or could have exposed others. Testing should be considered for people who attended such events, particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancing.


What are symptoms of COVID-19?
 

People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness.
These symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the viru

Fever
Cough
Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
Chills
Repeated shaking with chills
Muscle pain
Headache
Sore throat
New loss of taste or smell
Congestion or runny nose
Diarrhea

 


When to seek medical attention
 
If you have any of these emergency warning signs* for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately:

Trouble breathing
Persistent pain or pressure in the chest
New confusion or inability to arouse
Bluish lips or face

*This list is not all inclusive. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you.
Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: Notify the operator that you have, or think you might have, COVID-19. If possible, put on a cloth face covering before medical help arrives.
 

 

Where can I get tested?
Visit our data hub for help locating a testing facility near you! https://durhampublichealth-durhamnc.hub.arcgis.com/

Are certain groups at higher risk of serious illness?
All people are at risk of contracting COVID-19 and suffering serious illness. Certain groups are at higher risk of suffering serious illness from COVID-19: 



People aged 65 years and older


People who live in a nursing home or long-term care facility
Other high-risk conditions could include:
        
People with chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma
People who have heart disease with complications
People who are immunocompromised including cancer treatment
People of any age with severe obesity (body mass index [(BM]I)≥40) or certain underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled, such as those with diabetes, renal failure, or liver disease might also be at risk



There is limited information so far about COVID-19 in pregnant women. Pregnant women are at higher risk from influenza and other respiratory viruses, so they are encouraged to be extra vigilant.



How can I protect myself from COVID-19?
There are some common sense measures everyone can take to protect themselves and others from the spread of respiratory illnesses including coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).

Wash hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds each time.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands
Avoid close contact with people who are ill.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.
Do not reuse tissue after coughing, sneezing, or blowing your nose. 
Clean and disinfect surfaces that are frequently touched.
Practice social distancing.
Wear cloth face coverings to prevent spreading germs to others.


How many people have been tested in NC?
The North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services (NC DHHS) provides NC testing totals, as well as totals of confirmed positive tests and COVID-19 deaths here. 

How will I know if someone near me has tested positive for COVID-19?
When an individual tests positive for COVID-19, DCoDPH works to conduct a contact investigation, determining if an individual was in close contact with others while symptomatic. When DCoDPH conducts conduct contact investigations, we work to contact individuals who have been in close contact with confirmed COVID-19 cases.  

I am a medical provider or a community member. How can I help?
There are many ways to help Durham County residents affected by COVID-19.
For medical providers:
Volunteers are needed for NC's health care workforce in #COVID19NC Register at http://terms.ncem.org for: 

Clinical- doctors, nurses, EMS



    Clinical support- pharmacy, imaging & respiratory care


Other- facility maintenance, safety & admin


 
   For community members:
Duke Health is accepting outside donations of unused medical grade N95 masks, surgical and ear-lop face masks, and unopened boxes of exam gloves. Homemade cloth masks are not being accepted at this time: https://sites.duke.edu/remedy/how-to-donate/
Click here for an additional list of organizations in need of volunteers and resources. 
 





Where can I find accurate, up-to-date information?
On the web: NCDHHS.gov & https://www.cdc.gov
On the phone:  Call the NCDHHS hotline at 2-1-1 or 888-892-1162 (available 24/7) , or the Durham County hotline at 919-635-8150 (available 8:30-5:00, Monday - Friday). You may also text COVIDNC to 898211 to sign up for text updates.
Via email:  Sign up for our email list(s) to receive daily updates on the latest COVID-19 information and guidance. Use the links below to subscribe: 

For the general public: https://bit.ly/2U4CLIq
For healthcare providers: https://bit.ly/2UtVsEe
For businesses, faith communities, & community agencies: https://bit.ly/394P9w7
Information in Spanish: https://bit.ly/3bhXwGr

On social media: 
 DCoDPH (@DurhamHealthNC)

DCoDPH Facebook | DCoDPH Twitter | DCoDPH Instagram 

NCDHHS (@NCDHHS): 

NCDHHS Facebook | NCDHHS Twitter | NCDHHS Instagram

CDC (@CDCgov):

CDC Facebook | CDC Twitter | CDC Instagram







Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/services/communicable-diseases/coronavirus-disease-2019/covid-19-testing








Services » Communicable Diseases » Coronavirus Disease 2019


COVID-19 Testing


Print
Feedback


Share & Bookmark
Press Enter to show all options, press Tab go to next option


Email

Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Reddit



Font Size:
+
-








Not feeling well? Call your doctor or visit our data hub or state testing portal for additional testing information and resources.  
CVS Pharmacy
Multiple locations. See website for details
https://www.cvs.com/minuteclinic/covid-19-testing
Duke Primary Care Croasdaile
1821 Hillandale Road, Suite 24B, Durham, NC 27705
(919) 385-0429
https://www.dukehealth.org/treatments/urgent-care

 Physician Order Required
Screening Required

Duke Regional Hospital
3643 N. Roxboro Street, Durham, NC 27704
(919) 385-0429
https://www.dukehealth.org/covid-19-update

Appointment Required 
 Physician Order Required 
 Screening Required  

Duke University Hospital
2301 Erwin Road, Durham, NC 27710
(919) 385-0429
https://www.dukehealth.org/covid-19-update


    Appointment Required
Physician Order Required
Screening Required  

FastMed Urgent Care
7010 NC Highway 751, Durham, NC 27707
(919) 313-3900
https://www.fastmed.com/urgent-care-centers/durham-nc-walk-in-clinic/

Appointment Required
Screening Required  

Hillandale Road VA Clinic
1824 Hillandale Road, Durham, NC 27705
(919) 383-6107
https://www.va.gov/coronavirus-veteran-frequently-asked-questions/

Must be active duty military, retired or family member. 
Appointment Required
Screening Required 

Lincoln Community Health Center
 1301 Fayetteville St, Durham, NC 27707
(919) 956-4034 
https://lincolnchc.org/?page_id=8193

Appointment Required
Screening Required 

Walgreens
3798 Guess Road, Durham, NC 27705
(919) 479-5156
http://walgreens.com/covid19testing

Appointment Required
Screening Required  






Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/services/communicable-diseases/coronavirus-disease-2019/covid-19-modified-hours-of-operation








Services » Communicable Diseases » Coronavirus Disease 2019


COVID-19 Modified Hours of Operation


Print
Feedback


Share & Bookmark
Press Enter to show all options, press Tab go to next option


Email

Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Reddit



Font Size:
+
-









Note: All staff and visitors will have their temperatures checked prior to entering the building.  
If you have had a COVID-19 test in the past 14 days, you are required to bring a printed copy of your negative test results with you to enter the building. Please do not visit the building if you have tested positive for COVID-19 until you have been cleared by a medical professional. 
The following clinic is operating  8:30m - 5:00 pm Monday-Friday by appointment only:



Lab and Pharmacy



The following clinics are open Monday-Wednesday 8:30am-5:00pm by appointment only: 

Dental Clinic 
Family Planning
Immunizations 
Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) Clinic
Maternal Health

Other:

Communicable Disease - Clients must call for reporting as per our standard. 
Tuberculosis (TB) Control - open Monday-Wednesday 8:30am-5:00pm & Thursday-Friday 8:30am-1:00pm by appointment only

The following programs are operating off-site: 

Obstetrical Case Management
Positive Parenting Program
Care Coordination for Children
School Health Nurses - Deployed for surge capacity

To access open clinics, call us at 919-560-7600 and follow the prompts to be transferred to the appropriate clinic.
The following services are suspended:



Breast and Cervical Cancer Control Program (BCCCP)
Nutrition Clinic
Refugee Health












Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/services/communicable-diseases/coronavirus-disease-2019/covid-19-email-lists








Services » Communicable Diseases » Coronavirus Disease 2019


COVID-19 email lists


Print
Feedback


Share & Bookmark
Press Enter to show all options, press Tab go to next option


Email

Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Reddit



Font Size:
+
-








Email listserv:
 Join our mailing list(s) to receive daily updates on the latest COVID-19 information and guidance.

For the general public: https://bit.ly/2U4CLIq
For healthcare providers: https://bit.ly/2UtVsEe
For businesses, faith communities, & community agencies: https://bit.ly/394P9w7
Information in Spanish: https://bit.ly/3bhXwGr






Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/services/communicable-diseases/coronavirus-disease-2019/covid-19-resources-volunteering













Services » Communicable Diseases » Coronavirus Disease 2019


COVID-19 Resources & Volunteering


Print
Feedback


Share & Bookmark
Press Enter to show all options, press Tab go to next option


Email

Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Reddit



Font Size:
+
-



Find the help you need & learn how to help others





This page will be updated regularly as new opportunities and resources become available! 
Resources
Use the information below for help finding food, childcare, rent and utilities support, and more. 




Information
Use the resources below to sign up to receive COVID-19 information & updates. 
 By Phone & Text

Call or text the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services for information on food access, shelter, child care, and more: 
    
Call 2-1-1 or 888-892-1162
Text COVID-19 to 898211


Call the Durham County COVID-19 hotline: 919-635-8150
Young people can sign up to receive occasional texts from the Durham Office on Youth about resources (food, employment assistance, social/emotional health and events) available to you: text yodurham to (919) 213-0691
Call CDC info: 800-CDC-INFO

By Email

Subscribe to the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services email list here.
Sign up to receive email updates from the Durham County Department of Public Health: 
    
For the general public: https://bit.ly/2U4CLIq
For healthcare providers: https://bit.ly/2UtVsEe
For businesses, faith communities, & community agencies: https://bit.ly/394P9w7
Information in Spanish: https://bit.ly/3bhXwGr




Resource Guides
Use these guides to find additional resources!

Durham County Meta List of Resources, Durham Neighbor Help- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xRnZ0oktArFkBbBo-E9BFt7SL0xBZxP_RRCoccqn_Q4/edit
Durham County Resource Database, Community Empowerment Fund and Duke Student Collaborative on Health Policy-  tinyurl.com/ducovid19resources
COVID Community Resources, Duke Office of Durham and Community Affairs- https://sites.duke.edu/covidcommunityresources/ 
COVID Resources for Students and Families, Partners for Youth Opportunity – https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RKY-ZxJbY3CB2clCq7UJFKIea9OZmqpPkocff5hta6M/edit#gid=0
COVID Resources for Young Adults in NC, Equality NC- https://docs.google.com/document/d/10lZ0r4O5iczhhal6saOr1pM0DdoZ5w1gqryX5hCXus4/edit 
Family Connects Support List for Parents- https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BlBB5k_1IHEc7djBdicQRJKwccM-r2aO/view
Durham Network of Care, Alliance Health- https://durham.nc.networkofcare.org/mh/
National Alliance on Mental Illness resource guide: https://www.nami.org/covid-19-guide


Resources for Spanish-Speakers


El Centro Hispano: recursos para salud, alimentos, educación, y utilidades
    
El Centro Hispano COVID19 Solicitud del Fondo de Respuesta a las Crisis: En respuesta a la crisis de COVID19, El Centro Hispano ha creado el Fondo de Respuesta a la Crisis COVID19 para atender las necesidades de los miembros de la comunidad y las familias


Asistencia para alimentos: text COMIDA to 877-877
COVID-19 Parenting Tips & Activities 
Guía de ayuda para padres y cuidadores para ayudar a las familias a enfrentar la enfermedad Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19)
Información de Nuevo Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19)
Cómo hablar con los niños sobre el coronavirus




Resources for Seniors
Emergency & virtual medical services

Lincoln Community Health Center (Mon-Fri 8am-5pm; Sat 8-12: 919.956.4000) 
Walltown Neighborhood Clinic: 919.416.1254 
Live Well Primary Care Clinic: 919.803.4188 
Duke Outpatient Clinic: 919.417.8344 
Durham County Department of Public Health Clinics: 919.560.7600.
 Samaritan Health Center: 919.407.8226 
Duke Hospital Emergency Department: 855.855.6484 8. Duke Health Anywhere (virtual): 888.404.1017

Medicare/prescription assistance: 

Senior PharmAssist: medicare counseling for Durham Residents 919.688.4772 
 Most pharmacies are delivering now, so try calling your pharmacy first!

Food services:

Meals on Wheels: 919.667.9424
Running short of food and not sure what to do? Call BEC for more information

Transportation: 

Transportation to appointments from Lincoln Community Heath Center transposition: call 919.956.4000




Food


 Durham FEAST provides complete meals, fresh produce, and shelf-stable ingredients to children and adults experiencing food insecurity during COVID-19. Sites and schedules will be regularly updated at https://www.durhamfeast.org/sites. (In Spanish: https://www.durhamfeast.org/sitios.) 


Use the Durham Food Resources Map to find  no-cost meal sites, food pantries, grocery stores, farmers markets, and more near you. 


Families with children registered for the USDA free and reduced lunch program in North Carolina will receive pandemic EBT benefits (P-EBT).  Families will receive $307 per child in benefits, in two allotments. For most families who receive SNAP/EBT, benefits will go on their EBT card. Families who do not currently receive SNAP/EBT will be sent a white P-EBT card in the mail. More information:
    
Full FAQs (frequently asked questions):
        
English
Spanish


FAQ (frequently asked questions) one-pager:
        
English
Spanish






NC Department of Health and Human Services Food for Children:
    
Text FOODNC to 877-877 to get the location of the nearest meal site with serving times.
Text COMIDA to 877-877 for information in Spanish




Childcare for Essential Employees

Childcare for essential personnel, YMCA 
COVID-19 Parent Application for Financial Assistance for Emergency Child Care  NCDHHS (NCDHHS) has partnered with the North Carolina Child Care Resource and Referral (CCR&R) network to launch a hotline to provide child care options for children of critical workers. Call 1-888-600-1685 to receive information about local options for children from infants through age 12. The hotline is open Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.


Healthcare

Healthcare options if you lose you job and insurance

Spanish


NC Oral Health Collaborative Interactive Map for Urgent Dental Health Needs- https://oralhealthnc.org/covid-19/#map 


Mental Health Support

Taking Care of Your Emotional Health, Alliance Health
Dealing with Coronavirus Anxiety, Psychology Today
Hope4NC 24/7 helpline (1-855-587-3463) to connect North Carolinians to mental health support
Hope4Healers 24/7 helpline (919-226-2002) for first responders, health care workers, and others on the front lines of COVID-19
COVID-19 Resource and Information Guide, National Alliance on Mental Health


Rent & Utilities 

Renters who are concerned about paying their rent should request help from their landlord, DSS and/or Legal Aid of NC 866-219-5262. Eviction hearings and most court cases are postponed 30 days from March 16. 
On March 31, Governor Cooper signed Executive Order 124 which prohibits utilities – including electric, gas, water and wastewater services from disconnecting people who are unable to pay during this pandemic. The order also prohibits utilities from collecting fees, penalties or interest for late payment. The order applies for the next 60 days and gives residential customers at least six months to pay outstanding bills. 


Unemployment
The North Carolina Division of Employment Security is providing guidance to help people understand the impacts of the COVID-19 coronavirus on unemployment insurance benefits. For general questions about unemployment benefits in North Carolina during the COVID-19 crisis, contact the Division of Employment Security. 

Employees with questions about the application and benefits can read more about requirements and steps to get an unemployment benefit payment here: https://des.nc.gov/need-help/covid-19-information/covid-19-information-individuals 
Employers who have questions about their role in the process can read more about what is required of them to help their workers quialify for benefits here <insert link: https://des.nc.gov/need-help/covid-19-information/covid-19-information-employers. 
To report technical difficulties using the online tools provided by the Division of Employment Security, contact the office via the form at https://des.nc.gov/customer-contact-form. 






Volunteer & Donation Opportunities
Here's how you can help those in need during COVID-19





Help provide meals

Food banks still need your help. Visit feedingthecarolinas.org to find out how you can help.  
Volunteers are crucial to the long-term success of the Durham FEAST program providing free meals to Durham children and adults. Interested volunteers can learn more here. Individuals assisting with the Durham FEAST food distribution to children and families must complete an online safety training before volunteering at the Central Distribution Site or any Community Pick-Up Site.  
Individuals ages 18-60 are urgently needed to fill in at the Food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina. Participate in the Food Bank’s virtual food drive here.
Meals on Wheels Durham: Drivers needed to take meals to homebound seniors. Pick your shift here.
Urban Ministries of Wake County can still take healthy volunteers to assist in their food pantry or providing meals for their Helen Wright Center. Learn more here.

 Visit the Triangle Nonprofit & Volunteer Leadership Center's online portal to sign up for  shifts to drive meals to people, work at food sites, and more: http://www.handsontriangle.org/agency/detail/?agency_id=111665 

Donate masks
Duke Health is accepting outside donations of unused medical grade N95 masks, surgical and ear-lop face masks, and unopened boxes of exam gloves. Homemade cloth masks are not being accepted at this time: https://sites.duke.edu/remedy/how-to-donate/
The Salvation Army is accepting cloth mask donations for emergency responders:
909 Liberty St. 
Durham, NC
Donations accepted Monday-Friday, 9:00AM-3:00PM

Donate money, food, other resources
Click below for lists of organizations accepting donations: 

COVID-19 Resources Spreadsheet
COVID-19 Community Resources


In-person volunteer opportunities
Click below for lists of opportunities to volunteer in person:

Community Engagement Fund list of volunteer & donation opportunities
Activate Good list of volunteer opportunities


Virtual volunteer opporunities
Visit  Activate Good's website for a list of ways to get involved from home! https://activategood.org/covid19/ 

Medical providers
Volunteers are needed for NC's health care workforce in #COVID19NC Register at http://terms.ncem.org for: 

Clinical- doctors, nurses, EMS



    Clinical support- pharmacy, imaging & respiratory care


Other- facility maintenance, safety & admin



Interested health care employees with the ability to pick up extra shifts or who may have been laid off from facilities and are seeking full-time roles can register at https://nc.readyop.com/fs/4cjq/697b








Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowDocument?id=30680


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=15545&t=637248881819749556


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=15535&t=637248881785840381


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14339&t=637229005938252324


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=15415&t=637236753119457801


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=15541&t=637248881806935963


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14369&t=637229832737110138


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowDocument?id=30752


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14359&t=637229098827142498


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14345&t=637229012217067831


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14343&t=637229010553729246


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14263&t=637219413642270000


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14371&t=637229995537751777


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowDocument?id=30714


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14345&t=637229012217067831


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowDocument?id=30664


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14315&t=637227358776986968


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14363&t=637229110730041511


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=15403&t=637232537336786952


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14299&t=637227358737297829


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14307&t=637227358756361076


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14309&t=637227358761830034


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14317&t=637227358782455869


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=14301&t=637227358742923119


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=15463&t=637240262500819568


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowDocument?id=32022


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowDocument?id=32026


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowDocument?id=30722


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowDocument?id=30720


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=15397


A PDF here.
Scraping from https://www.dcopublichealth.org/Home/ShowImage?id=15425&t=637236777986725422


A PDF here.
