


Scraping from https://www.unioncountync.gov/news/coronavirus-what-you-need-know


Posted on February 5, 2020Page Updated: July 13, 2020, 5:00 p.m. 
| 
EspañolUNION COUNTY CORONAVIRUS HOTLINE: 
704-292-2550, available Monday - Friday from 8:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. If you have general questions related to COVID-19 outside of these hours, or are not a Union County resident, please call the North Carolina COVID-19 hotline at 866-462-3821 or email 
ncresponse@dhhs.nc.gov
.* Updated Mondays, Wednesdays, and FridaysUnion County has developed an interactive map and dashboard showing confirmed COVID-19 cases by zip code. (
Información en español
) This information will be updated Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at approximately 5:00 p.m. PruebasIF YOU HAVE COVID-19 SYMPTOMS:Atrium Mobile Testing Center:Monday, July 13, 2020

8:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.

Forest Hills High School, 100 S. Forest Hills School Road, Marshville, NC 28103


Information in English
 | 
Información en españolClick here to see all upcoming locations for the Atrium Mobile Testing Center
.CVS COVID-19 Testing:Select CVS locations have opportunities for COVID-19 testing. 
Click here for more information on CVS COVID-19 testing and to register for testing
. 
Registration is required.Locations in and near Union County: NCDHHS Testing Map:NCDHHS launched an interactive tool for finding local COVID-19 test sites
. There are now more than 300 places across North Carolina to be tested.Virtual Healthcare Options:Back to topActualizaciones en españolUnion County Public Health is confirming two COVID-19 clusters that have been identified in the County and reported to NCDHHS (North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services) as of today, July 7, 2020.Through case investigations, Public Health has identified 16 individuals who have tested positive for COVID-19 who attended the Marvin Ridge High School graduation. A portion of the individuals attended additional graduation-related gatherings not affiliated with Union County Public Schools, however, the only common link among all of the positive individuals was the graduation ceremony. A second cluster has been identified at East Union Middle School involving five staff members who were working together.COVID-19 transmission can occur 2-14 days after exposure to the virus, so there is the possibility of additional individuals who have not developed symptoms yet or who may be positive and asymptomatic. Individuals who attended the Marvin Ridge High School graduation, please follow the 3 Ws and take additional precautions when interacting with individuals from our vulnerable population. 
If attendees or someone in their home develops symptoms
, seek out COVID-19 testing from your physician. Contact with a positive COVID-19 individual is currently the highest transmission method within Union County, accounting for 43% of total cases as of July 7, 2020.Click here to read the press release
.Back to topMost people who contract COVID-19 will have mild symptoms and will make a full recovery. Currently, no vaccine is available to prevent COVID-19 infection. Health officials advise the steps you take to prevent the spread of the common cold and flu will also help prevent COVID-19.Measures you can take to prevent respiratory virus include
:If you believe you have been exposed to COVID-19 or 
develop symptoms
, call your doctor’s office. 
Read more from the CDC on steps to take to prevent the spread if you are sick
.Back to topFor support resources related to programs and services, 
see our UC CARES webpage
.Back to topIf you have 
symptoms of COVID-19
, contact your primary care provider for evaluation and guidance. If you do not have a primary care provider, call the Union County coronavirus hotline (704.292.2550) or the North Carolina COVID-19 hotline by calling 2-1-1. You may also call a local urgent care center, or a hospital emergency room and ask for guidance on how to be evaluated for COVID-19. Please do not arrive at a healthcare facility without calling first to seek guidance on preventative measures upon arrival to prevent the potential spread of the virus. 
Your physician will decide whether you need to be tested, based on a variety of conditions; including, but not limited to: symptoms, possible exposure to COVID-19, travel history, etc.
 Physicians who determine an individual should be tested for COVID-19 will either collect a nasal swab to be tested or refer the individual to a testing facility. Keep in mind there is no treatment for COVID-19. People who are mildly ill may be able to isolate and care for themselves at home.Click here for all postponements/closures
 related to Union County Government.The Union County School District is posting updates on this web page: 
https://www.ucps.k12.nc.us/Domain/3350There are several community organizations in need.Most childcare centers are still operating normal hours and exercising even more precautions than normal. Some childcare centers have “Emergency Drop In Services” availability, so you can contact a local provider to see if that’s an option. During this time, parents have to utilize their discretion regarding extended family, friends, and neighbors assisting with childcare issues. Some churches and local college students are looking for ways to help the community during this crisis, so you may want to contact your local church or friends with reliable teenagers or college students to see if they may be interested in assisting you in this way.If you work in healthcare, are a first responder, or otherwise designated as an essential worker, please 
click here for resources provided by the state of North Carolina
.*Please do not ask anyone considered elderly or anyone with serious chronic medical conditions to watch your children, as they are most at risk.The FDIC is working with federal and state banking agencies, as well as, financial institutions to consider all reasonable and prudent steps to assist customers in communities affected by the Coronavirus (COVID-19). In addition, the agency is monitoring information issued by international and U.S. health organizations. Regulatory agencies have encouraged financial institutions to work with customers impacted by the coronavirus. Customers experiencing difficulties beyond their control should work directly with their financial institutions.Presently, banks will continue with normal operations. Customers are asked to consider utilizing online banking or drive-thru services when possible.The Union County Judicial Center (Courthouse), including the office of the Clerk of Superior Court, continues to be open on a limited basis during normal hours. The Courts are still available for emergency domestic violence and no-contact restraining orders, as well as certain hearings in juvenile matters. All other matters - jury trials, district criminal and civil trials, family court cases, traffic cases, and small claims matters - have been canceled and will be rescheduled.Please call the Clerk of Court’s office at 704-698-3100 or 
visit their website for information
.Learn what is known about the spread of COVID-19
.Community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected.Coronaviruses like COVID-19 are most often spread through the air by coughing or sneezing, through close personal contact (including touching and shaking hands) or through touching your nose, mouth or eyes before washing your hands. Learn more from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) about how COVID-19 spreads and how to protect yourself and your community from getting and spreading respiratory illnesses.
Follow these common-sense measures to protect yourself and others from spreading viruses, including COVID-19:
Everyone in North Carolina should follow the latest recommendations from NCDHHS to reduce and slow the spread of infection.Coronaviruses are generally thought to be spread from person-to-person through respiratory droplets. Currently there is no evidence to support the transmission of COVID-19 associated with food. Before preparing or eating food it is important to always wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds for general food safety. Throughout the day wash your hands after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing, or going to the bathroom.It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.In general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from food products or packaging that is shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient, refrigerated, or frozen temperatures.Currently there is no evidence to support the transmission of COVID-19 associated with imported goods and there have not been any cases of COVID-19 in the United States associated with imported goods.Possibly, if you touch a surface with the virus on it, and then touch your mouth, nose or eyes. However, this is not likely to be the main way the virus spreads.It is not yet known whether weather and temperature impact the spread of COVID-19. Some other viruses, like the common cold and flu, spread more during cold weather months but that does not mean it is impossible to become sick with these viruses during other months.  At this time, it is not known whether the spread of COVID-19 will decrease when the weather becomes warmer.  There is much more to learn about the transmissibility, severity, and other features associated with COVID-19 and investigations are ongoing.While COVID-19 and influenza are both infectious respiratory illnesses and have some similar symptoms, they are caused by different viruses. While both the flu and COVID-19 may be transmitted in similar ways (airborne, meaning tiny droplets remaining in the air could cause disease in others even after the ill person is no longer near), there is no vaccine or treatment for COVID-19. Doctors and scientists are working on estimating the mortality rate of COVID-19, but at present, it is thought to be higher than most strains of the flu.The CDC now recommends wearing a cloth face covering
 in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.
Health officials believe hand sanitizer is effective to prevent COVID-19, if used properly. The CDC recommends washing hands with soap and water whenever possible because handwashing reduces the amounts of all types of germs and chemicals on hands. But if soap and water are not available, using a hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol can help you avoid getting sick and spreading germs to others.Clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces in common areas, such as doorknobs, light switches, remotes, handles, tables, desks, toilets, sinks, hard-back chairs. First, clean dirty surfaces with detergent or soap and water. Disinfect surfaces with a diluted household bleach solution (1/3 cup bleach per gallon of water), alcohol solutions of 70%+ alcohol or EPA-registered household disinfectants. Use gloves or wash hands thoroughly after cleaning. More from the CDC.Social distancing or maintaining a minimum distance of 6 feet away from others is recommended at this point on a community level.Increasing social distancing and restricting mass gatherings, in an attempt to "flatten the curve."Flattening the curve is the idea that communities and countries can delay the peak of the outbreak and thus relieve some of the stress on the healthcare system.These are protective measures used to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among people who may have been exposed.Self-monitoring is for those that may have been exposed to a person with COVID-19, and they should monitor themselves for symptoms. Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, and shortness of breath. If they develop symptoms (fever, cough and shortness of breath) during the self-monitoring period, they should self-isolate, limit contact with others, and seek advice by telephone from a healthcare provider or their local health department to determine whether medical evaluation is needed.Quarantine is for people who were exposed to a person with a confirmed case of COVID-19 but are not experiencing symptoms. Contact your local health department if you are unsure if you should self-quarantine.Isolation separates people who are sick from those who are well. The people who tested presumptive positive and positive in North Carolina are in isolation.The CDC now recommends wearing a cloth face covering
 in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.People should exercise at home or outside as much as possible. Per Governor Roy Cooper’s 
Executive Order 120
, health clubs were required to temporarily close.Experts say social distancing is the best weapon against the spread of COVID-19 — defined as keeping six feet away from another person. Children experience much less severe symptoms from COVID-19 than older people, though they can carry and spread the virus. And wherever social distancing can be practiced, kids can go. “We don’t have to go crazy,” said Joe Aracri, system chair of pediatrics for Allegheny Health Network. “We just want to be careful.”Dr. Sean O’Leary, M.D., an executive member of the American Academy of Pediatrics’ Committee on Infectious Diseases, said it’s still reasonable for people to err on the side of caution as much as possible right now. “We’re in the midst of something that no one alive has really experienced before,” he said.A small playground with lots of young children touching surfaces is probably not a great idea. Young kids just aren’t developmentally able to think about where they put their hands and keeping them cleaned often. At this point, some communities are closing their playgrounds; considering schools are out and we don’t want children congregating all together, Dr. O’Leary said playgrounds are “probably not the safest place right now.” “A quieter open park large enough to have space in between children is perfectly acceptable”, he said, “as is a hike in the woods or a backyard.”Encourage your kids to play in your own yard and definitely go outside into the fresh air, especially as the weather is warming up. This will ward off “cabin fever” and allow them to exercise during the day. Avoid groups or team sports, though and always practice proper hand hygiene after playing outside.Governor Cooper issued an executive order to close all bars and restaurant dining rooms effective 5PM on 3/17/20. Restaurants are remaining open to provide take out options.Most restaurants have increased their sanitation precautions, in addition to their standard sanitation and cleaning requirements and our Environment Health Agency monitors these restaurants on a regular basis.The move aims to lessen the spread of COVID-19 — the disease caused by the novel coronavirus — by limiting interactions between large groups of people. A number of other states have issued similar orders, including New York, Ohio and Florida.Older adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions may be at higher risk for more serious complications from COVID-19. Based upon available information to date, those most at risk include:Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to the flu. They are:COVID-19 typically causes mild to moderate respiratory illness. Most people with COVID-19 have mild symptoms that do not require hospitalization, although there have been reports of severe illness with a small percentage resulting in death. Respiratory symptoms alone are not an indicator of COVID-19.Symptoms may appear two to 14 days after exposure.If you have COVID-19 symptoms, contact your primary care provider for evaluation. If you don’t have a primary care provider, call a local urgent care center or hospital emergency room and ask for guidance on how to be evaluated for COVID-19.There is information for 
people who have had close contact
 with a person confirmed to have, or being evaluated for, COVID-19 available online.We know that people are most contagious when they have symptoms. Whether the virus can be spread before someone has symptoms is currently being evaluated. 
More on how COVID-19 spreads
 is available from the CDC.Most people with illnesses due to coronavirus recover on their own. There are no specific treatments for COVID-19, but treatments to bring down fever or alleviate other symptoms may help. For people who become severely ill, hospitals can provide care. There is more to be learned about COVID-19 as the situation continues to evolve, and treatment options may change over time. 
Learn more from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
.If you have symptoms of COVID-19, contact your primary care provider for evaluation and guidance. If you do not have a primary care provider, call the Union County coronavirus hotline (704-292-2550) or the North Carolina COVID-19 hotline by calling 2-1-1. You may also call a local urgent care center, or a hospital emergency room and ask for guidance on how to be evaluated for COVID-19. Please do not arrive at a healthcare facility without calling first to seek guidance on preventative measures upon arrival to prevent the potential spread of the virus. Your physician will decide whether you need to be tested, based on a variety of conditions; including, but not limited to: symptoms, possible exposure to COVID-19, travel history, etc. Physicians who determine an individual should be tested for COVID-19 will either collect a nasal swab to be tested or refer the individual to a testing facility. Keep in mind there is no treatment for COVID-19. People who are mildly ill may be able to isolate and care for themselves at home.Updated guidance as of March 24, 2020 recommends if your symptoms are mild, you can ride out the virus at home.*
Instructions from the CDC
: If you have not been tested and do not anticipate being tested to determine if you are still contagious, you can leave home after these three things have happened:The CDC recommends households have a plan of action to prepare for a COVID-19 outbreak. People should think about having daily necessities and medications to last about two weeks, in case they need to isolate. Massive stockpiling of supplies is not necessary.Individuals and families should have a plan in case they need to miss work due to illness or need to care for a sick family member.More information on 
household planning
 is available from the CDC.Below are some resources that offer at-home activities for kids:Museums with Virtual ToursList of Education Companies Offering Free Subscriptions100 Things to Do While Trapped InsideFree Activities for to Keep Kids Busy at HomeYou can go to the grocery store for items, as that is considered an essential trip during this time of sheltering in place, but send only one person, if possible, and preferably not anyone over 65 years of age, as they are being advised to stay home. Practice proper prevention techniques and use precautions, and be sure to disinfect your hands once you are back home. Limit the times you go to the store, and avoid public transportation, if at all possible. And avoid stockpiling so there is enough food and supplies for others. Offer to shop for your elderly family members, friends and neighbors if you’re going, if they do not have someone to shop for them.
In any place where large numbers of people gather, there is a potential risk for disease transmission. When you visit the grocery store, keep about 6 feet between yourself and others and use prevention techniques like avoiding touching your face and washing your hands. If possible, visit the store at times when there are likely to be fewer people shopping.
If you are in an area with home delivery, ask that your groceries be left at the door, rather than face-to-face interaction.
UCPS is offering free meals Monday-Friday 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. to children 18 years old and younger. Friday meals include an additional meal and snack. No sites will be open on Friday, April 10 in observance of Good Friday. 
Click here for meal distribution locations
.
Some restaurants and food establishments are offering assistance to families. Please check with individual businesses for any help they may be offering to the community.
Click here to learn about what the CDC has determined about COVID-19 and animals
.Back to top

Situación en españolThe Union County Division of Public Health is closely monitoring the international outbreak of a novel coronavirus, also known as COVID-19, and is working with public health partners at the state and federal level. COVID-19 has caused an outbreak of a respiratory illness and was first detected in Wuhan, China in late December 2019.“Union County Division of Public Health and our Communicable Disease team are working with state and federal health partners to follow all protocols and guidance to limit exposure to this respiratory disease,” said Dennis Joyner, Director of Public Health. "We know this is a fast-evolving situation and anticipate additional cases. We are working diligently to prevent the spread. We advise residents to take precautions, including staying home when sick."The spread of COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation. The CDC is constantly monitoring the situation and consistently updating its website with information as soon as it becomes available. 
Click here to see the CDC’s webpage on COVID-19
 that includes information on symptoms, travel, guidance for healthcare professionals, and more.On March 10, 2020, 
Governor Cooper declared a state of emergency
 due to coronavirus concerns. Declaring a state of emergency allows increased flexibility to respond and prevent the virus; access to federal funds; helps speed receiving of supplies; and gives health and emergency managers across the state budget flexibility.The state's Division of Public Health has set up a helpline to answer questions from the public about coronavirus (COVID-19). The phone number to the coronavirus helpline is 1-866-462-3821. It is answered 24 hours a day/7 days a week.Please rely on reputable health sources, like the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
, the 
World Health Organization
, and the 
North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services
, for information and updates on COVID-19.Board of Commission Chairman Jerry Simpson signed a 
declaration of a State of Emergency
 on Monday, March 16, 2020. 
For more information, click here
.Click here for COVID-19 information and resources from the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services
.Back to topClick here to access from a desktop computer
.Click here to access from a cell phone
.Click here to see the latest COVID-19 cases confirmed by county in North Carolina
.Click here to learn more about Union County Government facilities as we reopen to the publicIf you have difficulty breathing, call 911.If your symptoms are mild
, you are advised to contact your primary care provider who will likely ask you to stay home until symptoms resolve without testing. This is consistent with new CDC guidance.If your symptoms worsen
, call your primary care provider. If you do not have a primary care provider, call one of the two hotlines above, a local urgent care center, or a hospital emergency room and ask for guidance on how to be evaluated for COVID-19. Please do not arrive at a healthcare facility without calling first to seek guidance on preventative measures upon arrival to prevent the potential spread of the virus. Your physician will determine if testing is necessary.CVS Pharmacy, 1142 North Broom Street, Waxhaw, NC 28173CVS Pharmacy, 3610 Matthews Mint Road, Matthews, NC 28105CVS Pharmacy, 3310 Siskey Parkway, Matthews, NC 28105Several Charlotte locations are availableAtrium HealthNovant HealthAvoid close contact with people who are sick.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Stay home when you are sick.Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.The CDC now recommends wearing a cloth face covering
 in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.Wash your hands often
 with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol. Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.COVID-19 Graphic: Symptoms and PreventionCOVID-19 Sign: Do Not EnterCOVID-19 Sign: How does testing work?Union County Public Schools Information on COVID-19Virtual Healthcare Options
	


Atrium Health


Novant Health



Atrium HealthNovant HealthChildcare for Healthcare Personnel, First Responders & Other Essential WorkersStay Home Union County FlyerNorth Carolina's Department of Health and Human Services
 has compiled a fact sheet, frequently asked questions, and additional guidance for the public, education and child care facilities, and businesses

	


NCDHHS Guidance if You are Sick



NCDHHS Guidance if You are SickInformation on Phase 2 Easing of RestrictionsPhase 2 Guidance for Businesses, Churches, CampsFAQ NC DMV Vehicle Registration ExtensionCOVID-19 Fact Sheet: EnglishCOVID-19 Fact Sheet: ChineseFood & Nutrition Services (food stamps) Benefit IncreaseGuidance from NC DHHS
	


Businesses and Employers


Child Care Centers


Colleges and Universities


Community and Faith-Based Organizations


Community Events and Mass Gatherings


Correctional Facilities


First Responders


Health Care Providers, Hospitals, and Laboratories


Homeless Shelters


K-12 Schools


Local Health Departments


Long-term Facilities


Malls and Shopping Centers


Mass Transit


Migrant Farm Workers and their Employers


Public-Facing Businesses and Agencies


Restaurants and Bars


Syringe Service Programs


Working with People with Disabilities



Businesses and EmployersChild Care CentersColleges and UniversitiesCommunity and Faith-Based OrganizationsCommunity Events and Mass GatheringsCorrectional FacilitiesFirst RespondersHealth Care Providers, Hospitals, and LaboratoriesHomeless SheltersK-12 SchoolsLocal Health DepartmentsLong-term FacilitiesMalls and Shopping CentersMass TransitMigrant Farm Workers and their EmployersPublic-Facing Businesses and AgenciesRestaurants and BarsSyringe Service ProgramsWorking with People with DisabilitiesCenters for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) web page on COVID-19World Health Organization web page on COVID-19CDC Frequently Asked QuestionsCDC Travel GuidanceCDC Guidance if You are SickProper Handwashing GuideApp Guide for SeniorsInformación sobre la primera fase de alivio de las restriccionesNCDHHS: Qué hacer si se siente enfermoNCDHHS: Solicitar serviciosCDC: Qué necesita saberLetrero en español: pare, no entreLetrero en español: ¿Cómo funcionan las pruebas para COVID-19?Comidas Gratuitas de UCPSServicio de cuidado de guardería infantil para los parientes que cuidan a los miembros de nuestra comunidadQuédense en casaObtención de cupones de alimentos durante la emergencia del coronavirusRecursos e información acerca del COVID-19Mapa de recursos para acesso a alimentosAn individual whose illness resulted in a positive test for COVID-19 will be contacted by Union County Public Health. The Public Health department will issue guidance requiring the individual to self-isolate. The individual will receive detailed instructions on what they can and can’t do.Give Blood: Due to COVID-19, the FDA says the number of blood donations has been dramatically reduced due to the implementation of social distancing and the cancellation of blood drives. 
Click here to schedule an appointment to give blood at the American Red Cross, click here
. 
Click here to support OneBlood
.Click here to learn ways to help the Community Shelter of Union County
.To help the Crisis Assistance Ministry, click here for updates on needs
.The Council on Aging is updating its Facebook page with needs
.Common Heart in Indian Trail is collecting food donations for families in need
.The Union County Public School district has compiled a list of businesses offering meals and supplies to families in need. 
Click here for more information
.Food PantriesWash hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds at a time.Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands.Avoid close contact with people who are ill.Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.Do not reuse tissue after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.Clean and disinfect surfaces that are frequently touched.People 65 years and olderPeople who live in a nursing home or long-term care facilityPeople of any age with the following underlying medical conditions, particularly those that are not well controlled:
	






Chronic lung disease or asthma


Congestive heart failure or coronary artery disease


Diabetes


Neurologic conditions that weaken ability to cough


Weakened immune system


Chemotherapy or radiation for cancer (currently or in recent past)


Sickle cell anemia


Chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis


Cirrhosis of the liver


Lack of spleen or a spleen that doesn’t function correctly


Extreme obesity (body mass index [BMI] >40)











Chronic lung disease or asthma


Congestive heart failure or coronary artery disease


Diabetes


Neurologic conditions that weaken ability to cough


Weakened immune system


Chemotherapy or radiation for cancer (currently or in recent past)


Sickle cell anemia


Chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis


Cirrhosis of the liver


Lack of spleen or a spleen that doesn’t function correctly


Extreme obesity (body mass index [BMI] >40)



Chronic lung disease or asthmaCongestive heart failure or coronary artery diseaseDiabetesNeurologic conditions that weaken ability to coughWeakened immune systemChemotherapy or radiation for cancer (currently or in recent past)Sickle cell anemiaChronic kidney disease requiring dialysisCirrhosis of the liverLack of spleen or a spleen that doesn’t function correctlyExtreme obesity (body mass index [BMI] >40)People who are pregnantCoughFeverShortness of breathYou have had no fever for at least 72 hours (three full days of no fever without the use of medicine that reduces fevers)


ANDOther symptoms have improved (cough and shortness of breath have improved)


ANDAt least 7 days have passed since your symptoms first appeared


Scraping from https://www.unioncountync.gov/news/union-county-government-facilities-reopening-public


 HomePay My Tax BillPay My Water Bill Find a Job Stay Safe Contact UsAgricultural and Conference CenterBoard of County CommissionersBudget ManagementBuilding Code EnforcementClerk to the Board of County CommissionersCommunity Support & OutreachCooperative ExtensionCounty Manager's OfficeEmergency ServicesEnvironmental HealthFinanceGIS & MappingHealth ServicesHuman ResourcesLegal OfficeLibraryParks & RecreationPlanning & DevelopmentProcurement & Contract ManagementPublic CommunicationsPublic WorksRegister of DeedsSheriff's OfficeSocial ServicesSoil & Water ConservationTaxes & PropertyTransportationWaste & RecyclingVeterans ServicesUnion County Judicial CenterNorth Carolina Court SystemClerk of CourtsUnion County DWI Treatment CourtAnnual ReportsAdopted BudgetsUnion County CodeADA Compliance NoticeCommunity Development Block Grant (CDBG) ProgramMeeting Agendas & MinutesMeeting Videos & Live StreamsUnion County Organizational ChartBoard of ElectionsBoard of CommissionersBoards & CommitteesHistoric Preservation CommissionPay your utility bill

Get a building permit

Pay your taxes

Property SearchVote in Union County

Look up a deed

Marriage/Birth/Death Records

Sheriff's Office

Fire Marshal's Office

Emergency Communications

Emergency Management

Sex Offender Registry

Food Protection & Lodging

Septic Systems, Wells, & Water Protection

Childcare, Schools & Camps

Pools, Tattoos & Institutions

Lead, Moisture & Mold



Library

Register of Deeds

Birth, Death & Marriage Records

Marriage Licensing

Land Records

Pay Your Taxes Online

Assessments & AppraisalsCustomer ServicePay Your Utility Bill

Waste & Recycling

Water & Sewer

Additional Services

Community Support & OutreachHealth Services

Social Services

Building Permits

Gun Permits

Hunting & Fishing Permits

Transportation Services

CATS Schedules

Veterans Services

Animal Services

LibraryMunicipalitiesAgricultural and Conference CenterParks & RecreationFarmers MarketCooperative ExtensionEducationSenior CitizensArts & EntertainmentNew ResidentVeterans ServicesNumbers to KnowRoad ProjectsExplore Union County MapWater & SewerWaste & Recycling Adult ServicesChild & Family ServicesCommunity Support & OutreachSenior NutritionTransportation ServicesSheriff's OfficeEmergency CommunicationsEmergency ManagementFire Marshal's OfficeHealth ServicesSex Offender RegistryWeather-Related Road ClosuresFood Protection & LodgingSeptic Systems, Wells, & Water ProtectionChildcare, Schools & CampsPools, Tattoos & InstitutionsLead, Moisture & MoldAppeal My Tax AssessmentBoard VacanciesBusiness LicensesConcealed Carry PermitsEmployment OpportunitiesFire PermitsFishing & Hunting LicensesLibrary CardsMarriage LicensesPassportsPermits & InspectionsTax Relief Program ApplicationsPublic Works BillsTax BillsBuilding Inspection/Permit FeesTraffic Citations/Court Collection FeesCrime/Crime TipsWater/Sewer Leaks & EmergenciesDamaged or Missing Road SignsBuilding InspectionPublic RecordsBirth, Death, & Marriage RecordsWater/Sewer ServicesAg Center Facility ReservationsLibrary Meeting Room ReservationsParks Shelter ReservationsCane Creek Park Camping ReservationsParticipate in a Human Services EventAdoptable AnimalsAgendas & MinutesBids & RFP InformationBudgets & Financial ReportsBuilding CodesDeed Look-upUnion County Contact InformationUnion County Events CalendarUnion County Code of OrdinancesUnion County Organization ChartUnion County Vision StatementUCSO Crash Report DatabaseUCSO Daily BulletinUCSO Daily Civil Report Status ListWater Quality ReportsPosted on May 8, 2020Page Updated: July 7, 2020, 4:00 p.m. | 
EspañolUnion County Government has remained operational throughout this public health crisis, despite our buildings and facilities temporarily being closed to the public. Our buildings and facilities are starting to reopen to the public. Precautions will be implemented to protect the health and safety of employees and visitors, including the requirement to wear a face covering in County facilities when physical distancing of six feet is not able to be maintained. A disposable face covering will be provided for visitors who do not have one.Departments and Divisions that have reopened offices or facilities to the public are listed below in alphabetical order. To help navigate the extensive list, we recommend using Ctrl + F on your keyboard and searching for keywords. To search by Department or Division, click the first letter in the alphabet below. Departments and Divisions that are not listed below may still have offices closed to the public; 
click here to learn how to access those services
.Please watch this video to see the changes and precautions now implemented at some Union County facilities to protect the health and safety of employees and visitors.A
 | 
B
 | 
C
 | D | 
E
 | 
F
 | G | H | I | J | K | 
L
 | M | N | O | 
P
 | Q | 
R
 | 
S
 | 
T
 | U | 
V
 | W | X | Y | ZThe Union County Agricultural Center is open 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday thru Friday. At this time, no reservations are being accepted for the Events Center; and all events are postponed through July. Union County Cooperative Extension is meeting with the general public on an appointment-only basis. FAQ's and general information are available in the lobby of the Ag Center for pick up. Cooperative Extension classes, workshops, and activities are also postponed through July. 
Please visit the Cooperative Extension website
 for the most up to date information.Back to topThe 
Union County Board of Elections
 is open to the public during normal business hours, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.Building Code Enforcement
 has resumed normal operations. The number of customers in the office will be limited to six until further notice. We strongly suggest that permit applications be submitted using our online permitting system. If assistance is needed, please contact our permitting staff at 704-283-3816.Digital submission of plans is encouraged. If hard copies are required, they may be placed in the drop box located in the lobby of the Government Center.If your installation has specific needs, please contact one of the following to discuss.Back to topCommunity Support & Outreach
 is providing all services by telephone, mail, and online. Face-to-face appointments are not being accepted at this time. If anyone is in need of an in-office appointment or assistance, please call the number listed below for the program for which you are seeking assistance.Emergency Assistance (200%)

Please call 704-296-4300 and you will be transferred to a Crisis Assessment worker. If you reach a voicemail, please leave a message and your call will be returned within 48 hours.Energy Assistance - Crisis Intervention Program (CIP)

Four forms are required to apply for CIP:Paper applications for CIP can be accessed electronically.Submit all required, completed information one of these methods:All fields must be completed and forms must be signed before submitting.Please call 704-296-4300 if you have any questions.Senior Nutrition Congregate Program

Meals at congregate sites are canceled until further notice. For registered users of the congregate program, if you would like to receive meals delivered to your home while the sites are closed, call 704-283-3712.Senior Nutrition Homebound Program


For recipients:
 For current recipients of home-delivered meals, your meals will be placed on your doorknob or porch. The volunteer will knock, return to their car, and wait three minutes for you to get your meal. If the meal is not picked up, the meal will be removed. A staff person from our office will be calling you each week to check how you are doing. If you or someone you know is over the age of 60 and in need of meals at this time, call 704-283-3712 or 
complete an online referral form here
.For volunteers:
 Do not attempt your volunteer shift if you are sick or someone you live with is sick (fever, shortness of breath, cough). To minimize exposure to yourself and the seniors we serve, all senior nutrition volunteers should follow new meal delivery procedures:If you are unable to volunteer, 
email Gloria Haney
 or call 704-296-4312.Senior Nutrition: Nutritional Supplement Meal Services

Ensure will be delivered to the client or designee. Call 704-283-3712 with any questions.Work First Employment Services

Please call 704-296-4300 and you will be transferred to a Work First Employee. If you reach voicemail, please leave a message and your call will be returned within 48 hours.Work First Family Assistance

Work First clients are encouraged to take advantage of the following methods to conduct business:Submit completed paper application forms and/or all required supplemental information/ documentation via fax to 704-296-6148; mail to 2330 Concord Avenue, Monroe, NC 28110; or drop box just past the Human Services Building drive-thru window or in front of the flagpole. All fields must be completed and forms must be signed before submitting.Community Engagement and Health Education

All meetings and events are postponed until further notice. 
Email Heather Horne
 with questions.Internship Program


Download the intern application
 from our website. 
Submit all paperwork to Gloria Haney
.Parenting Support & Nurturing Parenting (PSNP)

Classes will be completed via telephone or video sessions. For new referrals, intake paperwork, or other questions please 
email Nicole Blevins
.Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

The IRS deadline for filing 2019 taxes is July 15, 2020. VITA appointments for the 2019 tax season ended July 1, 2020.Women, Infants & Children's Program (WIC)

WIC services are being provided by phone only. Staff will call anyone with a scheduled WIC appointment to complete the appointment by phone. Call 704-296-4893 (English) or 704-296-4890 (Spanish) if your phone number has changed, or for WIC or breastfeeding questions or concerns. If you need to drop off any breastfeeding equipment, please coordinate with staff by calling the numbers above.Court operations expanded on June 1 consistent with the Executive Orders of the Governor of North Carolina and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina. Precautions are being taken to protect court participants and visitors to the courthouse, including social distancing in the courthouse and courtrooms, and regular cleaning of courtrooms. Visitors to the courthouse are permitted to wear a mask to cover the nose and mouth area. The wearing of a mask is encouraged, but not required. Criminal cases and small claims cases (except summary ejectments) will be heard, beginning June 1, together with domestic violence, no-contact restraining orders, juvenile delinquency, and child abuse, neglect and dependency (DSS) cases as scheduled. Regular administrative traffic courts and jury trials continue to be suspended at this time. For more information on court dates or court schedules, 
please check online
 or call the Clerk’s office at 704-698-3100.Magistrate

All magistrate services are operating as normal, with two exceptions. Small claims court is not currently scheduled, and weddings are by appointment only.Back to topThe Environmental Health Division is open to the public during normal business hours, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday with a few modifications. Please call 704-283-3553 with questions. 
Visit the Environmental Health website
 to access online resources and find contact information.On-Site Water Protection (OSWP) Program

Field inspections are continuing normal operations with modifications made to accommodate physical distancing on the job site. Applications for new septic systems and wells are being accepted. All other services will continue.Children’s Environmental Health Program

Routine inspections and other activities associated with child care facilities, schools, and camps are occurring with the use of face coverings and other modifications made to accommodate physical distancing. Complaints and communicable illness outbreak investigations continue under normal operations with modifications to accommodate personal safety and physical distancing. 
Visit the Environmental Health website
 to access the online complaint referral form.Food Lodging and Institutions Program

Routine permitting and inspections of food establishments, public swimming pools, lodging, and other facilities are occurring with the use of face coverings and other modifications made to accommodate physical distancing. Inspections of facilities with populations vulnerable to COVID-19 will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Facility plan reviews will continue to be conducted electronically. Complaints and communicable illness outbreak investigations continue under normal operations with modifications made to accommodate personal safety and physical distancing. 
Visit the Environmental Health website
 to access the online complaint referral form.Back to topThe Fire Marshal’s Office
 will continue conducting fire code inspections and fire investigations while taking precautionary measures. Inspections at facilities with populations vulnerable to COVID-19 will be conducted in a matter that ensures the protection of all involved. All low and moderate hazard occupancy inspections have been suspended until local, state and federal guidance provides for normal business occupancy and gatherings of greater than 50 persons.Construction and permitting plan reviews continue on a normal basis. Construction inspections will be conducted by appointment only on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Site consultations have been suspended. If you are scheduled for a construction inspection, our staff member will advise you of the COVID related issues that will need to be addressed at the worksite prior to the inspection being conducted.Back to topLibrary locations are currently open Monday through Friday to individuals older than 65 and those considered high risk from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. and to the general public with limited capacity between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.; the exception is the Waxhaw library, which is providing provide curbside service only. All library locations are providing curbside service between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. For more information, 
visit the Library webpage
.Back to topCane Creek Park
 is open seven days a week from 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m with limited activities. Cane Creek Campground will reopen with limited capacity on June 1 by reservation only. 
Reservation requests resume June 1 online
, 
via email
, and by phone. Jesse Helms Soccer Complex and Fred Kirby Park remain closed until further notice. For more information, 
visit the Parks and Recreation webpage
.The 
Planning Department
 is open to the public during normal business hours, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday with a few modifications.All pre-application meetings for development applications will be conducted virtually. Please contact the appropriate Planning Department staff member for information on how to arrange a meeting.Electronic plan submission is encouraged
. If hard copies are required, they may be placed in the drop box in the lobby of the Government Center.Community meetings for rezoning and special use permit applications will resume. Applicants are encouraged to follow a few guidelines when conducting a community meeting:Public Health
 clinics are providing limited services by appointment only at the Human Services building (2330 Concord Avenue, Monroe, NC 28110). Do not come to the building without calling first.To minimize exposure for your family, our employees, and the community, only one adult is allowed to accompany a minor child to an appointment. For adult appointments, please ask everyone else other than the person with the appointment to remain outside of the building.Dental Clinic

The Dental Clinic sees patients for treatment and emergencies by appointment only at the Human Services building (2330 Concord Avenue, Monroe, NC 28110). Patient Schedule: Monday & Thursday from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Tuesday, Wednesday & Friday from 7:45 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Call 704-296-4829 for appointments.Health Clinics

Clinical health services are being provided by appointment only.Vital Records

Call 704-296-4884 for information regarding birth certificates, death certificates, disinterment/reinterment permits, or burial/transit permits. Time-sensitive documents clearly marked as “Vital Records” may be left in the drop box just past the Human Services building drive-thru window or in front of the flagpole, or mailed to 2330 Concord Avenue, Monroe, NC 28110.Customer Service Specialists are available to assist customers by phone (704-296-4210) and 
email
 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Applications for utility service can be completed online
 or mailed to: Union County Public Works, 500 N. Main Street, Suite 400, Monroe, NC 28112. The Customer Service office is open to the public; but in an effort to protect the health of employees and visitors, a maximum of three customers are allowed in the Customer Service office. We encourage you to visit our website to view online services. A secure drop box is located in the Government Center lobby for documents and customer service requests.Back to topThe 
Register of Deeds
 office is open to the public during normal business hours, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday with limitations on the number of customers in the office at a time.Back to topFor information related to the Union County Sheriff’s Office, 
visit the Sheriff’s Office website
.Social Services
 is providing all services by telephone, mail, and online. Limited face-to-face appointments are being accepted at this time. If you are in need of an in-office appointment or assistance, please call the number listed below for the program for which you are seeking assistance.Adult Protective Services (APS) Intake

To report abuse, neglect or exploitation, call 704-296-6124 Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For after hours, please call 704-289-1591.Adult Protective Services – Investigations, In-Home Services, Adult Day Care/Day Health

Call 704-296-4491.Adult Services – Guardianship, Special Assistance-In Home Services, Assisted Living Facilities, etc.

Call 704-296-4492 Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For after hours, call 704-289-1591.Child Protective Services (CPS) Intake

To report abuse, neglect or exploitation, call 704-296-6124 Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For after hours, call 704-289-1591.Child Protective Services (CPS) Investigations

Call 704-296-4443.Child Welfare - In-Home Services, Permanency Planning & Foster Care, Independent Living (LINKS) or Adoptions/Post-Adoptions

Call 704-296-4410.UCPS Behavioral Health Collaborative

Call 704-296-4487.Adult and Family & Children's Medicaid

Medicaid clients are encouraged to take advantage of the following methods to conduct business:Submit completed paper application forms and/or all required supplemental information/ documentation via fax to 704-296-6154; mail to 2330 Concord Avenue, Monroe, NC 28110; or the drop box just past the Human Services Building drive-thru window or in front of the flagpole. All fields must be completed and forms must be signed before submitting.If you want to file an application for benefits, the date you call us will be used as your date of application, even if we have to mail the application to you.If you came to our office because of a deadline or for an appointment, we will not cut off your benefits or penalize you. Please call for assistance.Child Care Subsidy

Call 704-296-6131.Submit all required supplemental information/documentation via fax to 704-296-6154; mail to 2330 Concord Avenue, Monroe, NC 28110; or drop box just past the Human Services Building drive-thru window or in front of the flagpole. All fields must be completed and forms must be signed before submitting.Food & Nutrition Services (FNS) – Intake & Redeterminations

Submit applications and recertifications for FNS. All fields must be completed and forms must be signed before submitting:Submit completed paper application forms or recertification paperwork, and/or all required supplemental information/ documentation via fax to 704-296-4363; mail to 2330 Concord Avenue, Monroe, NC 28110; or the drop box just past the Human Services Building drive-thru window or in front of the flagpole. All fields must be completed and forms must be signed before submitting.Health Choice and Food & Nutrition Services Repayments

Payments for established Health Choice or Food and Nutrition repayment agreements may be made via check or money order only (with case number written on the payment). Mail payments to 2330 Concord Avenue, Monroe, NC 28110; or drop box just past the Human Services Center drive-thru window or in front of the flagpole.Child Support Enforcement

Call 704-289-4356, 
email
, or text 704-412-9221.All locations are operating under normal business hours. For details, 
visit the Solid Waste website
.Construction and Demolition (C&D) Landfill and Transfer Station

All locations are operating under normal business hours. Call 704-296-4260 with questions.Residential Waste and Recycling Centers (Convenience Sites)

All locations are operating under normal business hours. Only cash, check, or exact change will be accepted in drop boxes at each location with the exception of commercial haulers at the Austin Chaney landfill scale house which will accept credit cards. Call 704-512-9821 with questions.Visitors:
 If you are sick, please stay home. During busy times, follow social distancing procedures (at least six feet apart).Trash from a home with sick (isolated or quarantined) individuals:
 Double bag trash items and put all recyclables in the trash.Back to topTax Administration
 is open to the public 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. The number of customers allowed in the office is limited to 7 people in the Tax Collector’s office and 7 people in the Tax Assessor’s office until further notice (excluding small children with their parents/guardians). Customers are encouraged to conduct as much business as possible by phone and to utilize our drop box or 
website
 for payment purposes. All field appraisal work is limited to new construction sites only, with the exception of properties under appeal for 2020. In such cases, appointments may be made as needed with management approval.You can contact our office for assistance in the following ways:Transportation services are being provided for trips associated with medical needs, obtaining food (grocery store, food pantry, etc) and adult day care. Transportation services to places of employment resume June 22. Call 704-292-2511 for an appointment. Transportation services related to other shopping needs and educational facilities are suspended until further notice.Back to topVeterans Services Offices will provide services by appointment only by calling 704-283-3807. Please do not come to the VSO without an appointment.To minimize exposure for your family, our employees, and the community, please ask everyone else other than the person with the appointment to remain outside of the building.VSOs continue to work with veterans by phone, email, fax or drop off of documents and paperwork. Documents can be dropped off with the arrangement of the VSO you are currently working with or by calling the main number at 704-283-3807.If you have additional questions or need further information, please call 704-283-3807 or 
email Michelle Marcano
 with a detailed message, including the veteran's name and contact information.If you need someone to talk with, contact the Veterans Crisis Line at 800-273-8255. Additional contact information and resources include: VA Hospital in Salisbury-Urgent Care available 24/7 (800-469-8262); VA Clinic Tyvola (704-329-1300); VA Clinic University (704-597-3500). Call before you arrive. Contact your VA primary care clinic to ensure your appointment is still scheduled. Union County Transportation is continuing to support veterans’ medical trips to the VA Clinics and Community Care approved doctors.Back to topCopyright
  |  
Legal
  |  
AccessibilityUnion County Government Center

500 North Main Street, Monroe, NC 28112

704-283-3500 | 
Contact UsAll Union County contacts
 Monsido