


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/





Wake Forward
a program to assist small businesses

 Learn More


COVID-19 Cases in Wake County
North Carolina identified its first COVID-19-positive case, a resident of Wake County, in early March. Every day since then, the number of positive cases in our community has increased.
While our dashboard is updated regularly, it doesn’t tell the complete story of how widespread coronavirus is in Wake County. The state has confirmed the virus could be anywhere in our community – and that’s why it’s so important for residents to take precautions and stay home if they are sick.
To view cases by ZIP code, visit the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services interactive map here.

 











Protecting our Healthcare System
As the number of positive COVID-19 cases continues to rise, so are concerns that the virus could overwhelm our local healthcare system. To help prevent that from happening, Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford signed an updated stay-at-home order on April 15 that will remain in effect until April 30. Starting May 1, 11 of the county’s 12 municipalities and portions of Angier, Clayton and Durham that are located within Wake County, will follow Gov. Cooper’s Stay-at-Home order, which was lifted on May 22.
Proclamations related to COVID-19 include:

  April 29 April 18 April 15 March 26 March 22 March 13ResidentsBusinessesHealthcare ProvidersNursing HomesA PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE
A PDF HERE



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/timeline/






Timeline of COVID-19 in Wake County

 

First case of COVID-19 identified in North Carolina in Wake County


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wakeforward/






COVID-19 has changed the landscape of our communities in ways we never could have imagined.
While each of us has been affected, small and independently owned businesses have certainly felt the brunt of the impacts.
Recognizing that small businesses are the backbone of our community, Wake County has launched Wake Forward, a small business relief program that aims to provide loans to small business owners struggling financially due to COVID-19. The goal is to help them in the short-term, so they can get back on their feet in the long-term.

 


Wake Forward allocates $5 million in total to support small businesses in Wake County, with $1 million of that funding set aside for sole proprietor businesses.

 Apply NowApply here starting May 20 at noon


The program, which is administered by the NC Rural Economic Development Center Inc., enables small businesses to apply for two months of lost revenues, up to $50,000.

 


To be considered for Wake Forward funding, businesses must:

 



Be located in Wake County

 



Have between 1 – 100
full-time employees

 


In addition to the above criteria, applicants must meet other criteria, as outlined by NC Rapid Recovery. To read those requirements, visit NCRapidRecovery.org or email NCRapidRecovery@threadcap.org.
Small business owners who receive loans through the program will make no payments for six months. They will then be responsible for paying the principal, along with interest payments at 5.5%, for the following 48 months.
Please note, businesses who apply for both the NC Rapid Recovery loan and the Wake Forward loan program are not eligible to receive a loan from both programs. If you have already applied for the NC Rapid Recovery program, you are automatically considered for the Wake Forward program.

 


Wake Forward Small Business Program

 Apply NowApply here starting May 20 at noon



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/guidance-for-faith-based-communities/






Guidance for Faith-Based Communities




At a time when many people are looking to religion for spiritual support, COVID-19 is making it difficult for faith-based communities to serve their members. We understand this, and that’s why – as the state begins its phased approach to reopening – we’re encouraging faith organizations to start planning now to safely welcome members back into their facilities.
We’ve created a video, featuring County Manager David Ellis and Public Health Director Regina Petteway, that speaks specifically to this planning effort. It offers guidance and resources to help faith-based communities take the right steps to ensure members can socially distance, sanitize their hands and avoid contact when in-person services are allowed to begin again.

We encourage you to share this video with your faith organization and its leadership. We’re all in this together, and the more we do in partnership to protect each other from this virus, the better for everyone.
Additional Resources:



Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – Community and Faith-Based Organizations
N.C. Department of Health & Human Services – Community and Faith-Based Organizations
Center for Faith and Opportunity Initiatives
Checklist for Reopening Faith-Based Organizations Safely
NCDHHS Interim Guidance for Places of Worship and Religious Services in Phase 2 (as of May 22)




 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/guidance-for-healthcare-providers/






Guidance for Healthcare Providers




Information about COVID-19 is changing rapidly. To keep our healthcare partners updated on the latest information and guidance, Wake County Public Health has compiled some of the questions we are being asked frequently. We hope that these Q&A’s will help providers get the information they need about this evolving situation while also providing a better understanding of public health’s role, as we partner with healthcare providers to manage this novel coronavirus.




 What are symptoms of COVID-19? People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. People with these symptoms may have COVID-19:

Fever or chills
Cough
Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
Fatigue
Muscle or body aches
Headache
New loss of taste or smell
Sore throat
Congestion or runny nose
Nausea or vomiting
Diarrhea

 Who is at risk for contracting COVID-19? Given that there is community spread of the virus in our state, anyone can contract the virus from their daily interactions with other people. At this point in the pandemic, people with the virus may not know where they became infected or who transmitted the virus to them.
 What should I do with a patient who is exhibiting the symptoms associated with COVID-19? Please follow the excellent guidance provided by NCDHHS. In general, healthcare providers should screen patients before they enter the facility, either via telephone or telehealth/video triage. Telehealth or telephone triage allows clinicians to evaluate patients with mild symptoms and provide guidance on home care and follow-up, while preventing further spread of COVID-19.
If the patient is experiencing fever (subjective or measured), respiratory or GI  symptoms, they should be advised to isolate at home for at least 10 days since symptoms first appeared AND at least 72 hours since resolution of fever (without the use of fever reducing medications) AND improvement in respiratory symptoms. They should also be advised to contact their provider if their symptoms are not getting better.
If, however, their symptoms become more serious (difficulty breathing, altered mental status), patients should be advised to call before seeking in-person care or call 9-1-1, and disclose their symptoms so emergency medical providers can take appropriate steps in transporting the patient to a facility where they can be treated.
Patients who enter a healthcare facility exhibiting fever or flu-like symptoms should be masked immediately and providers should ensure proper use of personal protective equipment. The patient should be separated from other patients, ideally in a well-ventilated space.
 Who should be tested for COVID-19? Current NCDHHS Guidance suggests that clinicians should conduct or arrange for diagnostic COVID-19 testing for:

Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19
Close contacts of known positive cases, regardless of symptoms
The following groups are some of the populations with higher risk of exposure or a higher risk of severe disease if they become infected. People in these groups should get tested if they believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19, whether or not they have symptoms.

People who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp)
Historically Marginalized populations who may be at higher risk for exposure
Frontline and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, childcare workers, construction sites, processing plants, etc.) in settings where social distancing is difficult to maintain
Health care workers or first responders (e.g. EMS, law enforcement, fire department, military)
People who are at high risk of severe illness (e.g., people over 65 years of age, people of any age with underlying health conditions)


People who have attended protests, rallies, or other mass gatherings could have been exposed to someone with COVID-19 or could have exposed others. Testing should be considered for people who attended such events, particularly if they were in crowds or other situations where they couldn’t practice effective social distancing.

Physicians should consider testing for flu prior to testing for COVID-19.
Each time a provider tests a patient for COVID-19, the practice must:

Fill out a PUI form and fax it to the Wake County Public Health Division (919-212-9291) and the state (919-733-0490).
If patient was tested but has not symptoms and no known exposure to someone with COVID-19 (for example, as a part of a workplace screening program, they do not need to stay home while waiting results unless told to do so by an employer or by public health.

 What if one of my patients tests positive for COVID-19? If the result of the test is positive, healthcare providers must notify the patient and advise that they be isolated at home. In addition, other people in the patient’s home should remain quarantined at home, away from the patient, and self-monitor for fever and symptoms for 14 days.
Results may be faxed to Wake County Public Health at 919-743-7362.
The patient should also be advised that if they begin to experience severe symptoms to call their healthcare provider before going to the provider’s office. In the case of a medical emergency, patients should call 9-1-1 and disclose that they have been diagnosed with COVID-19 so that emergency providers can be sure to respond appropriately.
Once a test is confirmed positive, Wake County Public Health will contact the patient. This includes reaching out to the healthcare provider to determine whether any practice staff had a significant exposure.
Please note that false negative results are possible. If COVID-19 testing is negative, consider if patient’s recent exposure and clinical presentation are consistent with COVID-19. Retesting should be considered in consultation with local public health.
 How can our office test for COVID-19? Testing to detect COVID-19 is available through commercial labs and the NC State Laboratory of Public Health (NCSLPH). Testing at the NCSLPH is only available with prior approval by the local health department or the state epidemiologist on call.
LabCorp tests do NOT require confirmation testing from the CDC.
 How is the specimen is collected? COVID-19 testing requires specimens collected from the nose, throat or lungs. These specimens must be collected by a healthcare provider. Details on how to collect specimens can be found on LabCorp’s site.
View more questions and answers about LabCorps’s test and how it is administered.
 What is the risk to my staff and providers? There is still much to learn about COVID-19. Based on what is currently known, spread is thought to occur mostly through respiratory droplets. Infectious secretions include sputum, serum, blood and respiratory droplets. If close contact occurs while not wearing appropriate personal protective equipment, health care providers may be at risk of infection.
 What steps can healthcare providers take to protect staff? Some things providers and practices can do to protect staff include:

Review infection prevention and control guidelines on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website.
Enforce proper hand hygiene practices before and after all patient contact.
Ask patients with respiratory symptoms to wear a mask and/or separate them from other patients and staff.
Assess and triage patients with acute respiratory symptoms and risk factors for COVID-19. Ideally, do this before they enter the facility.
Use standard and transmission-based precautions when caring for possible COVID-19 patients.
Consider using telemedicine to evaluate suspected cases of COVID-19.
Consider screening staff for symptoms prior to entering the clinical area.

 Should I send my patients that need COVID-19 testing to the Wake County Health Department for testing? Medical providers can test patients using the LabCorp test. Providers should NOT send patients to the Wake County Health Department to be tested as public health is prioritizing testing for high-risk individuals and health care workers.
 Are there any other resources available to evaluate patients? As of March 24, local hospital systems have established evaluation pathways for possible COVID-19 patients (see press release from March 17 and below). Understand that these pathways may change in the coming days, based on the recently released guidance from NCDHHS.
 UNC Health UNC Health patients with coronavirus symptoms should call their primary care provider’s office to determine if and where they should be tested for COVID-19. This may result in a referral to a UNC Health Respiratory Diagnostic Center or to a UNC Virtual Care center.
UNC Health patients can also call a UNC Health Helpline at 1-888-850-2684 before visiting a doctor’s office or an urgent care location. Please note: This HelpLine is experiencing high volumes of calls.
The current hours for UNC Health Respiratory Diagnostic Centers are 8 a.m.–5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 8 a.m.–noon Saturday and Sunday.
 WakeMed Health & Hospitals WakeMed is no longer operating its Respiratory Diagnostic Center. Patients can call the WakeMed Health Help Line at 919-350-5200 between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. to connect with a provider for an initial phone evaluation.
WakeMed Virtual Urgent Care can also help evaluate COVID-19 risks, assess symptoms and provide support by video to help you find the most appropriate level of care while minimizing exposure.
You can be seen online 24/7 using a smartphone, tablet or computer without leaving home. Consults are available on-demand, and no appointment is necessary. To get started, visit wakemed.org/virtual-urgent-care or download the WakeMed All Access App.
 Duke Health Duke Primary Care and Urgent Care have opened dedicated Respiratory Care Centers to diagnose and address people experiencing COVID-19-like symptoms. People who are experiencing symptoms can call the Duke Health COVID-19 hotline at 919-385-0429 between 8 a.m. -- 8 p.m. seven days a week. Nurses will triage callers and advise on whether self-quarantine, tele-medicine or in-person appointments are recommended.
You can learn more about Duke Health's COVID-19 response  here.
 Conserving Personal Protective Equipment Personal Protective Equipment, or PPE, is in short supply across the country. That’s why Wake County strongly encourages healthcare providers who request PPE from the county to develop a conservation plan.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention offers guidance on how to optimize your use of PPE and encourages you to implement a plan now if you haven’t already. The website includes a burn rate calculator and advice on how to safely decontaminate and reuse PPE, as well.
 Should I order COVID-19 antibody tests for patients? If you suspect someone has current COVID-19 infection, the standard diagnostic test is viral PCR. Antibody testing should not be used for purposes of diagnosis. Providers should understand the limitations of any test they might order. Right now, there’s not enough known about the test to determine its accuracy. It’s unknown whether the test can tell the difference between past infections from SARS-CoV-2 and the six other coronaviruses. It’s also too soon to know whether the presence of antibodies means a patient is immune to a second infection.
 Should I send the results of antibody tests to the Wake County Division of Public Health or the state Division of Health and Human Services? No. At this time, COVID-19 antibody test results are not reportable. However, COVID-19 RT-PCR positive results must be reported to Wake County Public Health. You may FAX results to 919-743-7362.


 


Additional Information
Additional information for healthcare providers can be found on the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services website as well as on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention site

 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/guidance-for-business/






Guidance for Businesses




Beginning May 22, North Carolina entered the second phase of easing certain restrictions under Gov. Roy Cooper’s reopening plans. In phase two, businesses can be open but with restrictions and smaller capacities. Bars, gyms, nightclubs, movie theaters, museums, bowling alleys, amusement parks, arcades and skating rinks will remain closed. Teleworking is still strongly encouraged where possible.
On June 24, Gov. Cooper extended his Safer at Home phase 2 reopening, and issued a statewide face mask order to help stop the spread of the coronavirus. This order states that people must wear face coverings when in public places where physical distancing is not possible.  In addition, certain businesses must have employees and customers wear face coverings.








 What businesses will remain closed during Phase 2? Bars, nightclubs, spas, exercise facilities, gyms, fitness studios, martial arts facilities, dance studios, trampoline and rock-climbing facilities, roller skating rinks, ice staking rinks and basketball courts must remain closed.
 How can I protect customers at my restaurant, hotel or other business that serves the public? As restaurants, hotels, attractions and other businesses that serve the public reopen in phases, Count On Me NC has training to help companies keep patrons safe from COVID-19. Training is available for owners, front- and back-of-house restaurant staff, sanitation workers and more. Businesses that complete training are provided Count On Me NC branding materials to show customers they have taken the pledge to protect against COVID-19.
Count On Me NC is partnership among the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services, N.C. Restaurant and Lodging Association, N.C. State Cooperative Extension and Visit NC.
 How do I protect workers at my business? If your business is open, workers and clients are advised to practice social distancing. That includes:

Staying at least six feet away from others;
Wearing a cloth face covering in public settings;
Washing hands frequently with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds;
Cleaning and disinfecting surfaces that get touched often;
Covering your mouth and nose with a tissue or sleeve when you cough or sneeze;
Regularly cleaning and disinfecting surfaces that get touched often; and
Not shaking hands.

Additionally, employers should:

Order employees to stay home when they are sick.
Be flexible in sick leave benefits.
Consider staggering start and end times of employees, to reduce large numbers of people coming together at the same time.
Offer opportunities for teleworking.

Additional information can be found on the NCDHHS site here.
 I run a childcare facility. How should I protect our children and staff? To the extent possible, childcare facilities must also follow the state’s guidance for their facilities.
 Where can I go for help during this economically challenging time for my business? Wake County is partnering with the Raleigh Chamber of Commerce and Wake County Economic Development to share resources with all businesses impacted by closures and service restrictions. You can visit their COVID-19 resource page for more information.
 If I have to lay off employees, what can I do? Capital Area Workforce Development can support businesses and impacted workers facing layoffs, closures and other sensitive business actions.  These rapid response services are customized and offered virtually. Contact Kimberly Wheeler at 919-856-6046 or kimberly.wheeler@wakegov.com.
People can apply for unemployment on the N.C. Department of Commerce’s website. Under Gov. Roy Cooper’s executive order signed on March 17, unemployment benefits will be easier to access during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 What are the special restrictions for nursing homes? Nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers are no longer allowed to receive visitors, per Gov. Roy Cooper’s executive order. These facilities must also cease all group activities that don’t allow for social distancing.
 Are restaurants in Wake County closed? Starting on Friday, May 22, Wake County restaurants can reopen dining rooms but at limited capacity.
 Are face coverings required in my business? People are required to wear Face Coverings in the following settings, whether they are inside or outside:

Retail businesses
Restaurants (including customers when not seated at their tables)
Personal care, grooming and tattoo businesses
Childcare facilities, day camps and overnight camps
State government agencies
Transportation services
Meat or poultry processing plants
Long term care facilities
Health care services
Any other facility where social distancing is difficult

 What are the exceptions to wearing a face mask at my business? The governor’s order does not require face coverings for workers, customers or patrons who:

Can’t wear a face covering due to medical or behavioral conditions or disabilities. This includes, but not limited to, trouble breathing, unconscious or incapacitated, or is otherwise unable to put on or remove the face covering without assistance;
Are under 11 years of age;
Are actively eating or drinking;
Exercising;
Trying to communicate with someone who is hearing-impaired that requires the mouth to be visible;
Giving a speech for a broadcast or audience;
Working at home or in a vehicle;
Temporarily removing the covering to show identification;
Would be at risk from wearing a Face Covering at work, as determined by local,
state, or federal regulations or workplace safety guidelines;
Face covering impedes their visibility to operate equipment or a vehicle; or
Is a child whose parents or guardians cannot place the covering safely on the child’s face.

 How will the face coverings mandate be enforced? Citations can be written to businesses and organizations who do not enforce the requirement to wear face coverings.  Owners can rely on their customers’ statements about whether or not they are excepted from the face coverings requirement and will not be cited if they rely on those statements.


 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/food-resources/






Food Resources
Meal sites for children are open across Wake County to serve meals to students daily. Other food resources such as mobile food markets, food pantries and emergency food boxes are available to serve families through curbside delivery. Food safety measures are being followed, and ID is not required to access any of these services.

 Meal Sites ListMeal Sites MapFood PantriesMobile Food MarketsEmergency Food BoxesMeal Sites List


Lunch and breakfast for pickup
Students aged 18 and under, Monday through Friday, 11 a.m.–1 p.m.

Poe Magnet Elementary School, 400 Peyton St., Raleigh
Rogers Lane Elementary School, 201 N. Rogers Lane, Raleigh
Creech Road Elementary School, 450 Creech Road, Garner
Wendell Middle School, 3409 NC Hwy. 97, Wendell
Zebulon Magnet Elementary School, 700 Proctor St., Zebulon
Millbrook Magnet Elementary School, 1520 E. Millbrook Drive, Raleigh
Briarcliff Elementary School, 1220 Pond St., Cary
Pine Acres Community Center, 402 McLean St., Fuquay-Varina
PAVE SE Raleigh Charter School, 3420 Idlewood Village Drive, Raleigh
Northern Regional Center, 350 Holding Ave., Wake Forest
Washington Terrace Apartments, 1951 Booker Drive, Raleigh
Raleigh Millbank Apartments, 1500 N. Raleigh Blvd., Raleigh
The Oaks Apartments, 590 Lipscomb Court, Raleigh
Casa De Luna Apartments, 3918 Bonneville Court, Raleigh
Juniper Level Baptist Church, 9104 Sauls Road, Raleigh
Bugg Elementary School, 825 Cooper Road, Raleigh
Dillard Elementary School, 5018 Dillard Drive, Raleigh
Fox Road Elementary School, 7101 Fox Road, Raleigh
Fuller Elementary School, 806 Calloway Drive, Raleigh
Hodge Road Elementary School, 2218 Mingo Bluff Blvd., Knightdale
Baileywick Elementary School, 9425 Baileywick Road, Raleigh
Reedy Creek  Elementary School, 930 Reedy Creek Road, Cary
Forestville Elementary School, 100 Lawson Ridge Road, Knightdale
Knightdale Elementary School, 109 Ridge St., Knightdale
Athens Drive High School, 1420 Athens Drive, Raleigh
Hunter Elementary School, 1018 E. Davie St., Raleigh
Rolesville Middle School, 4700 Burlington Mills Road, Rolesville
Rolesville High School, 1099 E. Young St., Rolesville
Smith Elementary School, 1101 Maxwell Drive, Raleigh
Brentwood Elementary School, 3426 Ingram Drive, Raleigh
Cary Elementary School, 400 Kildaire Farm Road, Cary
Sanford Creek Elementary School, 701 Granite Falls Blvd., Rolesville
Wendell Elementary School, 3355 Wendell Blvd., Wendell

Lunch or dinner for pickup
Western Region confirmed Community Sites
Students aged 18 and under. (Specific meal times and locations below)

First United Methodist, 117 S. Academy St., Cary, Mon.–Fri., 12:15–1:15 p.m.
Chatham Forest Apartments, 880 Glendale Drive, Cary, Tues. and Thur., 6:30–7:30 p.m.
Apex First Baptist, 419 S. Salem St., Apex, Mon.–Fri.., 6:30–7:30 p.m., Sat. and Sun., noon–1 p.m.
Arbors at Cary Apartments, 200 Wrenn Drive, Cary, Mon.–Thur., 6–7 p.m.
Crosstimber Apartments, 900 Golden Horseshoe Circle, Morrisville, Mon.–Fri., noon–1 p.m.
Holly Springs United Methodist, 108 Avent Ferry Road, Holly Springs, Mon.–Thur., 6:30–7:30 p.m.
Kirk of Kildaire Presbyterian Church, 200 High Meadow Drive, Cary, Sat. and Sun., noon–1 p.m.
Wilson Temple UMC, 1023 Oberlin Road, Raleigh, Sat. and Sun., noon–1 p.m.
Arella Cary Apartments, 101 Harlon Court, Cary, Tues.–Thur., 5:30-7:30 p.m.
Pleasant Grove Baptist Church Carver Center, 948 Morphus Bridge Road, Wendell, Mon.–Fri., 11 a.m.–1 p.m.
Chatham Estates Mobile Home Community, 701 E. Chatham St., Cary, Mon.–Fri., 12:30–1:30 p.m.
Shangri-La Mobile Home Community, 811 Chickadee Lane, Apex, Mon.–Fri., 6:30–7:30 p.m., Sat., noon–1 p.m.


 Meal Sites Map Children & Family Meal Sites MapFood Pantries Emergency COVID-19 PantriesMobile Food Markets


Inter-Faith Food Shuttle Mobile Markets
Locations and Times are available to all community members:

Abundant Life Cathedral, 4400 Old Poole Road, Raleigh
Fourth Saturday, 10–11:30 a.m.
Bread for Life Mobile Market at Zebulon Boys & Girls Club, 1320 Shepard School Road, Zebulon
Third Saturdays, 10–11 a.m.
Community Helpers Service Center, 111 N. First Ave., Knightdale
Drive-thru, Thursdays, 10 a.m.–1 p.m.
Praise Temple Mobile Market, 1329 U.S. Hwy 70, Raleigh
Fourth Saturdays, 10–11 a.m.
Wake Forest Baptist Church, 107 South Ave., Wake Forest
Third Tuesdays, 4:30–6:15 p.m.


 Emergency Food Boxes


Inter-Faith Food Shuttle and the Food Bank of Central and Eastern NC
Emergency Food Boxes will be available for families on Fridays at these Meal Distribution Sites:


Creech Road Elementary, 450 Creech Road, Garner
Millbrook Elementary, 1520 E. Millbrook Road, Raleigh
First United Methodist Church Cary, 117 S. Academy St., Cary
Rogers Lane Elementary, 201 N. Rogers Lane, Raleigh
Pine Acres Community Center, 402 McLean St., Fuquay-Varina
Fox Road Elementary, 7101 Fox Road, Raleigh
Bugg Elementary, 825 Cooper Road, Raleigh
Poe Elementary, 400 Peyton St., Raleigh
Reedy Creek Elementary, 940 Reedy Creek Road, Raleigh
Knightdale Elementary, 109 Ridge St., Knightdale


 
Emergency Food BAGS will be available for families on Thursdays at these Meal Distribution Sites:


Hunter Elementary, 1018 E. Davie St., Raleigh
Smith Elementary, 1101 Maxwell Drive, Raleigh


 


Meal boxes will be available every Friday, and meal bags will be available every Thursday.


These packages are available on a first-come, first-served basis from 11 a.m.–1 p.m.

Emergency Food packages will contain shelf-stable food (dry & canned goods).
No ID is required to pick up a box or bag.




 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/webisodes/






Wake County Webisodes

 







Episode 6
In this week’s Webisode Chairman Greg Ford and Commissioner Sig Hutchinson talk with Chris Snow, Director of Wake County Parks and Open Space, about Wake Parks From Home.

 









Episode 5
In this week’s Webisode, Chairman Greg Ford and Vice Chair Vickie Adamson talk with Housing Director Lorena McDowell and Katherine Williams of NC Cooperative Extension about how Wake County is working to continue to serving our most vulnerable residents during COVID-19.

 







Episode 4
In this episode, Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford and Commissioners Sig Hutchinson and Dr. James West talk about the success of our drive-thru COVID-19 testing with Human Services Director Regina Petteway and EMS Director/Medical Direction Jose Cabanas. They also discuss the impacts of the virus on the county’s Latinx community, as well as the residents and staff of long-term care facilities.

 







Episode 3
Join Chairman Greg Ford as he discusses the proposed FY21 Budget with Commissioner Susan Evans, County Manager David Ellis, and Chief Financial Officer Emily Lucas.

 







Episode 2
Watch Wake Board Chairman Greg Ford and Commissioner Matt Calabria interview representatives of the Raleigh Chamber of Commerce and Wake Economic Development about the new Wake Forward program. They’ll explain how small businesses impacted financially by COVID-19 can apply for loans up to $50,000 to help them recover.

 







Episode 1
Watch Wake Board Chairman Greg Ford and Vice Chair Vickie Adamson interview County Manager David Ellis about the steps Wake County has taken since March to help slow the spread of COVID-19. They’ll also outline how the county’s Emergency Operations Center is coordinating our response, using data trends to inform the reopening process.

 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/resources/






Multicultural Resources for our Community
COVID-19 doesn’t discriminate. Regardless of race or gender, we’re all potentially at risk of contracting the virus.
Since March, Wake County has used traditional media and digital media – like Twitter, Facebook and this website – to keep residents updated on the latest information about the virus and the proper safeguards to take. But, we know we’re not reaching everyone.
Website Translation
In an effort to share these important messages across our multicultural community, we’ve translated our COVID-19 website into the 10 most commonly spoken languages in Wake County. To access any of them, just select “translate” at the top of this page and choose your preferred language.
Language Toolkits
We’ve also created toolkits in the most commonly spoken languages for organizations in our diverse community to use to help spread factual information about COVID-19. For fact sheets, graphics for digital media and other resources, see below:

 



Arabic

 



Chinese – Simplified


 



Chinese – Traditional

 



English

 



French

 



Hindi

 



Korean

 



Spanish

 



Tamil

 



Telugu

 



Vietnamese

 View All



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/guidance-for-nursing-homes/






Guidance for Nursing Homes




 What are the special restrictions for nursing homes? Nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers must cease all group activities that don’t allow for social distancing.
 I have a relative in a nursing home. Will I still be able to visit them? 


Under the state executive order,  "long-term care facilities shall restrict visitation of all visitors and non-essential healthcare personnel, except for certain compassionate care situations, for example, and end-of-life situation."



 What can nursing homes do to limit the spread of COVID-19 in their facilities? In addition to restricting visitors, nursing homes can implement the following processes to limit the spread of COVID-19 within their facility:

If the nursing home has a positive resident, the resident should be isolated away from healthy residents. If possible, all residents and all staff should be tested for the virus, per Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance. If results render additional positive cases, those positive residents should be cohorted.
If nursing home staff experience symptoms of the virus, they should stay home for seven days. Once they are fever-free for three consecutive days after the start of their symptoms, they may return to work.
If staff has a negative COVID-19 test and have no symptoms, they may return to work.
If employees test positive and have no symptoms, they can return to work, but they can only support the residents who have tested positive for COVID-19 and they must wear appropriate personal protective equipment at all times per guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.



 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-faqs/#Other-COVID-19-Related-FAQs






Wake County FAQs

 


North Carolina has moved into Phase 2 of the Governor’s plans to reopen. During this phase, the Stay-at-Home order has been lifted, but some restrictions are still in place for residents and businesses.

 Safer-at-Home OrderOther COVID-19-Related FAQsWake Forward FAQsSafer-at-Home Order


 What is NOT allowed under the safer-at-home order? As of May 1, Wake County has been following the statewide stay-at-home order issued by Gov. Roy Cooper. For more information, call the state’s hotline at 2-1-1 or consult its frequently asked questions.
On May 8, the Governor’s phased approach to easing restrictions of travel, business operations and gatherings went into effect with Phase 1.
On May 22, the Governor’s approach to easing restrictions lifted the stay-at-home order and enter Phase 2 of reopening.
Under the current order:

Restaurants can reopen dining rooms at 50% capacity. All staff must wear face coverings and practice strict cleaning procedures.
Personal care businesses, including barber shops, hair and nail salons, tattoo parlors, tanning salons and massage therapists, must also operate at 50 percent capacity. These businesses must be by appointment only.
Bars, nightclubs, gyms and health clubs must remain closed.
Pools may reopen at 50 percent capacity.
Overnight and day camps can open with safety rules.
Movie theaters, bowling alleys, and other indoor entertainment venues remain closed.
Playgrounds will also stay closed.

 What types of gatherings are banned? Gatherings of more than 10 people in a single indoor space remains prohibited. In outdoor spaces, gatherings of more than 25 people are prohibited.
 Can construction and landscaping continue? Yes. Residential and commercial construction and landscaping are essential services.
 Can I still attend church or another religious service? The mass gathering limit and other requirements of Phase 2 do not apply to worship, religious and spiritual gatherings, funeral ceremonies, wedding ceremonies and other activities constituting the exercise of First Amendment rights.
Individuals are encouraged to follow the Three Ws to reduce the chance of spreading COVID-19. Read more information here.
 We had a death in the family. Can we hold a funeral? Yes, but attendees should maintain social distancing. Funeral homes, crematoriums, cemeteries and providers of mortuary services are essential services.
 What types of sporting activities are allowed? Can I play golf or tennis? Public and private gatherings of 25 or more people are prohibited outdoors. However, spending time outdoors and exercising are important for maintaining physical and mental health. While private sporting facilities are closed, we encourage families to take advantage of public recreation areas for activities that allow proper social distancing. For instance, basketball and soccer games are off limits because everyone touches the same ball and players come into close contact. Families may play golf or tennis, provided facilities are open and social distancing is practiced at all times.
 What areas of the county does this apply to? The Governor's safer-at-home order applies to the entire state of North Carolina, including all areas of Wake County. 
 How does this apply to people experiencing homelessness?  The restrictions do not apply to people experiencing homelessness. We urge them to find shelter and practice social distancing as much as possible. If you or someone you know needs help, call Oak City Cares at 984-344-9599.
 What if I think my business should be closed, but they’re still asking me to report to work? Teleworking is being strongly encouraged. If you believe your business should be closed, but you are still being asked to show up to work, you should discuss it with your employer.
 Is public transit still operating? GoTriangle is continuing to update its bus and shuttle services in response to COVID-19. Changes affect the routes run by GoRaleigh, GoCary and GoWake Access, as well as routes that run beyond Wake County. Riders may call 919-485-RIDE for information.
 Do I need to wear a face covering?  Yes, on June 24, Gov. Cooper issued a statewide face mask order to help stop the spread of the coronavirus. This order states that people must wear face coverings when in public places where physical distancing is not possible.  In addition, certain businesses must have employees and customers wear face coverings.


 Other COVID-19-Related FAQs


 How is the virus spread? 

According to the CDC:


“The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person:



Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).
Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks.
These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.
Some recent studies have suggested that COVID-19 may be spread by people who are not showing symptoms.
Maintaining good social distance (about 6 feet) is very important in preventing the spread of COVID-19.”



 Can the COVID-19 virus live on surfaces? According to the CDC, it may be possible for a person to "get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes."
 Who is most at risk for contracting COVID-19 in Wake County? While anyone can contract COVID-19, adults older than 65, people with underlying health conditions and pregnant women should take extra precautions as they may be at higher risk for developing serious illness associated with the disease.
 I’m worried about getting COVID-19. What can I do to keep myself and my family safe? 

Some ways to lessen your risk for getting COVID-19 include:




Staying home and using teleworking technology when possible.
Washing your hands.
Avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth.
Practicing social distancing and staying away from sick people.
Cleaning and disinfecting surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.





Covering coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throwing the tissue in the trash.
Staying home if you’re sick and avoiding close contact with others for three days after symptoms resolve.



 What is social distancing? Social distancing is a public health strategy that prevents close contact between people with the aim to reduce opportunities for disease transmission. Tactics that people can use to support social distancing include maintaining six feet of space between each other when in public and avoiding events with large numbers of people. The goal is to slow the spread of COVID-19 so that spread is contained as much as possible and there’s less strain on our healthcare system to care for sick people. The goal is to slow the spread of COVID-19, so fewer people get sick and there’s less strain on our healthcare system. For more information, visit here.
 I have spent time with someone who has COVID-19. What should I do? If you have been in close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19, you are a good candidate for our free drive-thru testing.
You should stay home for 14 days, as much as possible, and monitor yourself for symptoms. If you develop symptoms, self-isolate for 10 days after the onset of symptoms and at least three days after symptoms resolve.
 Do I need to wear a mask to protect myself while in public? Facemasks should be used to help prevent the spread of the disease to others. The use of facemasks is also crucial for health workers and people who are taking care of someone in close settings (at home or in a health care facility).
CDC recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.
The state of North Carolina requires face masks in public anytime you are not in a position to stay at least six feet apart.
 I’m sick with a fever, cough and shortness of breath. What should I do? If you believe you have symptoms of COVID-19, you can be tested at one of the testing locations throughout Wake County.
If serious illness develops, call your primary care provider. If you have trouble breathing, call 9-1-1.
 Are pets at risk of COVID-19? The Wake County Animal Center is monitoring how COVID-19 may affect pets, following reports of pets in the U.S. having tested positive for the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19. Routine testing of domestic animals for COVID-19 is not currently recommended.
Until we know more, the CDC recommends pet owners take the following precautions:

Do not let pets interact with people or other animals outside the household.
Keep cats indoors when possible to prevent them from interacting with other animals or people.
Walk dogs on a leash, maintaining at least 6 feet from other people and animals.
Avoid dog parks or public places where a large number of people and dogs gather.

If you have symptoms or a confirmed case of COVID-19, restrict contact with your pets and other animals, just like you would around other people.

When possible, have another member of your household care for your pets while you are sick.
Avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding.
If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wear a cloth face covering and wash your hands before and after you interact with them.
Follow general guidelines for staying healthy around animals.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. In rare cases, a strain that infects animals can spread to people. The CDC does not know its exact source, but the coronavirus that caused the current outbreak of COVID-19 is suspected to have originated in animals and spread to people.
At this time, there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the new coronavirus, according to the CDC. Based on the limited information available to date, the risk of animals spreading COVID-19 to people is considered to be low.
 My relative lives in a nursing home. I’d like to visit her, but is that safe? Visitors are not currently permitted to visit nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers as ordered by Gov. Roy Cooper.
 I’m a caregiver for a senior citizen. Should I do anything different than usual? The N.C. Department of Health and Human Services has posted a guide for individuals and families to avoid spreading COVID-19 within the home. Just like the general public, caretakers and those who share a home with someone in the increased risk group should take steps to limit their exposure to all kinds of contagious diseases, including COVID-19. If people think they’ve contracted COVID-19, they should take steps to avoid spreading the virus to anyone else, including those in their home or care who are in the higher-risk group. The CDC has additional resources for families to avoid spreading the disease among themselves.
 I am concerned that I may have COVID-19. How can I get tested? Now that community spread has been confirmed in North Carolina, testing by Wake County is focused on those most at risk of developing serious illness, including those over the age of 65, people with underlying health conditions and pregnant women.
If you have symptoms, self-isolate for 10 days after the onset of symptoms. If you develop serious illness, call your primary care doctor for evaluation. If you experience difficulty breathing, call 9-1-1.
 What is community spread? Community spread means that there are COVID-19-positive people who do not know how or where they became infected with the virus.
 Why are healthcare workers focusing on testing at-risk populations? Now that North Carolina has community transmission of the virus, we have moved to a community-based mitigation strategy, aimed at decreasing the spread, especially among those most at risk of serious illness. In this phase, testing and contact tracing are more focused than in the broad-based containment approach we executed early in the outbreak. 
This change in strategy allows us to be more vigilant about conserving resources like personal protective equipment for our healthcare workers and directing testing to those more likely to become seriously ill.
 Which Wake County phone number should I call to ask questions about COVID-19 or share my concerns? We have set up a few different phone numbers depending on your question. Visit our "Contact" page to get the email address of phone number best-suited for your need.
 I’m concerned about kids who don’t have access to nutritional meals now that school is closed. How can I help? The Wake County Public School System, Wake County and its partners are working together to make sure that food is available to hungry students during these unprecedented times. If you would like to volunteer to support food distribution sites, please complete the Food Security and Access Volunteer Form.
Please direct all food donations to the Interfaith Food Shuttle or Food Bank of Central and Eastern NC.
 What is the COVID-19 antibody test? Antibody tests measure proteins called immunoglobulins, that the body produces to help fight off infections. It takes time for our immune systems to make antibodies, which is why the test is done after symptoms go away. The test helps determine if someone had an immune response to COVID-19 but does not tell us if the person has COVID-19 currently.
There is still a lot we don’t know about SarsCoV-2 or COVID-19, including interpretation of Antibody tests. According to the Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL), there are at least 90 tests on the market, and we don’t yet know which ones are best.
 If I test positive for the antibody, does that mean I had—or have—the virus? We aren’t sure. Right now, we don’t know enough about the test to determine its accuracy. It’s unknown whether the test can tell the difference between past infections from SARS-CoV-2 and the six other coronaviruses, four of which cause the common cold. It’s important to note that the antibody test is not a replacement for the diagnostic test.
If you are having symptoms of COVID-19, you should:

Stay away from other people for 10 days after your symptoms begin
When you no longer have symptoms, you should stay home without fever for three more days
If you feel you need medical care, call your doctor. If you have trouble breathing, call 9-1-1.

 If I test positive for the antibody, does that mean I am immune to COVID-19? No. According to the World Health Organization, there is currently not enough evidence to tell us that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection. At this point, until testing improves, and we understand more about the virus, everyone is still considered at risk.
 What can the results be used for? This test is done after recovery from COVID-19, to detect an immune response from exposure. However, until the accuracy of the tests can be determined, there’s not much health officials can do with results. At this point, residents and/or providers do not need to report their results to the Wake County Division of Public Health or the North Carolina Division of Health and Human Services.
Cautions about the use of antibody results

The presence of COVID-19 antibodies cannot currently be used to diagnose someone as having COVID-19.
Positive antibody results cannot tell us with certainty that someone is “immune” to future infection. If protection does exist, we don’t know for how long.
Positive results cannot certify people as safe to work or travel if they’ve already been sick.
Positive results cannot tell us with certainty that the antibody detected is specifically due to COVID-19, and not another coronavirus (e.g. common cold).
Negative results do not rule out the possibility of COVID-19 infection. If you have symptoms of infection, ask your doctor about testing for presence of the virus itself.



 Wake Forward FAQs


 What is Wake Forward? Wake Forward is a small business relief program that aims to help small business owners struggling financially as a result of COVID-19.
The Wake County Board of Commissioners has set aside $5 million in CARES Act funding for this initiative. Of the $5 million, $4 million will fund small business loans, and at least $1 million will fund loans to independent contractors and sole proprietors, such as barbers, hair stylists and massage therapists. Small businesses can apply for two months of lost revenues, up to $50,000.
The program is administered by the NC Rural Economic Development Center Inc.
 Does my business qualify for Wake Forward funding? If your business is in Wake County and you have up to 100 employees, your business may qualify for a Wake Forward loan. Learn more here.
 How does my small business apply for a Wake Forward loan?  The steps are easy! Just visit our Wake Forward webpage to get started.
 I have already applied for the NC Rapid Recovery loan. Do I need to submit another application for Wake Forward? No. If you have already applied for NC Rapid Recovery you are automatically considered for the Wake Forward program. You can only receive one loan from either program.
 I have received the NC Rapid Recovery Loan. Am I eligible for Wake Forward? No. Businesses can only receive one loan from either NC Rapid Recovery or Wake Forward.


 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/assistance/






Help for Residents
Wake County is working to ensure residents can continue accessing services during the COVID-19 response effort. In some cases, services have been expanded to help people get the assistance they need during this challenging time. 
If you need help, a good place to start is the Wake Network of Care. Public agencies, nonprofits and local businesses have come together to create a list of resources available to specifically meet the new demands created by COVID-19.
You can also download a COVID-19 information and resource guide, developed by Wake County Human Services, here.

 MedicaidDental ClinicFood and Nutrition ServicesFood for SchoolchildrenHousingEnergy AssistanceChild Protective ServicesChildcare SubsidyEmployment SupportPublic TransportationWIC Supplemental Food ProgramMasks and Face CoveringsOther Changes to County ServicesMedicaid


Medicaid
To apply for Medicaid, people have four options:

Apply online at epass.nc.gov.
Mail completed, signed applications to: Wake County Human Services, P.O. Box 46833, Raleigh, N.C. 27620.
Fax completed, signed applications to 919-212-7028.
Apply by calling 919-212-7000.

Medicaid questions can be emailed to FCMAintake@wakegov.com.

 Dental Clinic


Dental Clinic
While in-person dental appointments are currently not available, the Wake County Human Service Dental Clinic is making tele-dental visits possible for people up to 20 years of age. If you have a dental concern or pain, please call 919-250-4610 and leave a message. Someone will return your call within the next business day to coordinate a virtual dental visit.

 Food and Nutrition Services


Food and Nutrition Services
To apply for food and nutrition services, people may:

Apply online at epass.nc.gov.
Mail applications to: Wake County Human Services, P.O. Box 46833, Raleigh, N.C. 27620
Fax completed, signed applications to 919-212-7028.

Questions related to Food and Nutrition Services can be emailed to foodandnutrition@wakegov.com.
If you need to speak to your case worker, call 919-212-7000.

 Food for Schoolchildren


Food for Schoolchildren
The Wake County Public School System, Wake County and its partners are working together to make sure that food is available to hungry students during these unprecedented times.
 
North Carolina has approved the distribution of additional resources to families receiving free or reduced-price lunch. The additional benefits will be through the P-EBT program to help families buy food during the COVID-19 school closure. Learn more on the NC Department of Health and Human Services website.

 Housing


Housing
Wake Prevent! has temporarily changed the way it supports local families living in hotels. Families may be eligible for financial assistance to remain in place for up to 12 weeks if they currently live in a hotel, have experienced income loss due to COVID-19, and have children.
For more information about the program and to learn more about eligibility, families can call 919-856-5661 or email covid19.housing.hotelfamilies@wakegov.com.

 Energy Assistance


Energy Assistance
Most utility providers are not currently disconnecting service during the COVID-19 outbreak. However, you can obtain an application for energy assistance by calling 919-212-7000 or downloading an application here.

 Child Protective Services


Child Protective Services

The county will no longer accept walk-ins at any location. For questions about child welfare services, call 919-212-7000.
If you suspect child abuse or neglect, call the Wake County report line at 919-212-7990 (English) or 919-212-7963 (Spanish) between the hours of 8:30 a.m.–5 p.m.
If a child is in immediate danger, call 9-1-1.

 Childcare Subsidy


Childcare Subsidy
To apply for assistance with childcare costs, email childcaresubsidy@wakegov.com.
Questions about childcare subsidy can be answered by calling 919-212-7000.

 Employment Support


Work First Benefits
Work First family assistance assessments and application interviews will be conducted by phone. Please call 919-212-7846 for an interview.
NCWorks Career Centers
NCWorks Career Centers are still helping people prepare for and find work by providing career assessments and counseling and assisting in the preparation of resumes. For additional information, visit AccessNCWorks.com or call 919-715-0111. To apply for jobs, visit NCWorks.gov.

 Public Transportation


Public Transportation
GoTriangle is continuing to update its bus and shuttle services in response to COVID-19. Changes affect the routes run by GoRaleigh, GoCary and GoWake Access, as well as routes that run beyond Wake County. Riders may call 919-485-RIDE for information.

 WIC Supplemental Food Program


WIC (Women, Infants and Children) Supplemental Food Program
The WIC Program provides benefits for healthy foods, nutrition education, breastfeeding support and breast pumps to eligible pregnant and postpartum women and children age 0-5.
To receive WIC benefits, people may:

Apply for WIC online.
Call 919-250-4720.

For questions, eligibility guidelines, or more information visit the Wake County WIC website or call 919-250-4720.

 Masks and Face Coverings


Masks and Face Coverings
Residents of the 27610 ZIP code can pick up free, protective face masks thanks to a collaboration between WakeMed, Wake County and the City of Raleigh. The program aims to distribute 30,000 masks to residents.
View a list of locations, dates and times here.
Limit 3 masks per person.

 Other Changes to County Services


Other Changes to County Services

As the COVID-19 situation continues to evolve, the health and welfare of our community remains the county’s top objective. As a result, the county is pausing or curtailing some services. Click here for a full list of changes.

 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-faqs/#wake-forward-faq






Wake County FAQs

 


North Carolina has moved into Phase 2 of the Governor’s plans to reopen. During this phase, the Stay-at-Home order has been lifted, but some restrictions are still in place for residents and businesses.

 Safer-at-Home OrderOther COVID-19-Related FAQsWake Forward FAQsSafer-at-Home Order


 What is NOT allowed under the safer-at-home order? As of May 1, Wake County has been following the statewide stay-at-home order issued by Gov. Roy Cooper. For more information, call the state’s hotline at 2-1-1 or consult its frequently asked questions.
On May 8, the Governor’s phased approach to easing restrictions of travel, business operations and gatherings went into effect with Phase 1.
On May 22, the Governor’s approach to easing restrictions lifted the stay-at-home order and enter Phase 2 of reopening.
Under the current order:

Restaurants can reopen dining rooms at 50% capacity. All staff must wear face coverings and practice strict cleaning procedures.
Personal care businesses, including barber shops, hair and nail salons, tattoo parlors, tanning salons and massage therapists, must also operate at 50 percent capacity. These businesses must be by appointment only.
Bars, nightclubs, gyms and health clubs must remain closed.
Pools may reopen at 50 percent capacity.
Overnight and day camps can open with safety rules.
Movie theaters, bowling alleys, and other indoor entertainment venues remain closed.
Playgrounds will also stay closed.

 What types of gatherings are banned? Gatherings of more than 10 people in a single indoor space remains prohibited. In outdoor spaces, gatherings of more than 25 people are prohibited.
 Can construction and landscaping continue? Yes. Residential and commercial construction and landscaping are essential services.
 Can I still attend church or another religious service? The mass gathering limit and other requirements of Phase 2 do not apply to worship, religious and spiritual gatherings, funeral ceremonies, wedding ceremonies and other activities constituting the exercise of First Amendment rights.
Individuals are encouraged to follow the Three Ws to reduce the chance of spreading COVID-19. Read more information here.
 We had a death in the family. Can we hold a funeral? Yes, but attendees should maintain social distancing. Funeral homes, crematoriums, cemeteries and providers of mortuary services are essential services.
 What types of sporting activities are allowed? Can I play golf or tennis? Public and private gatherings of 25 or more people are prohibited outdoors. However, spending time outdoors and exercising are important for maintaining physical and mental health. While private sporting facilities are closed, we encourage families to take advantage of public recreation areas for activities that allow proper social distancing. For instance, basketball and soccer games are off limits because everyone touches the same ball and players come into close contact. Families may play golf or tennis, provided facilities are open and social distancing is practiced at all times.
 What areas of the county does this apply to? The Governor's safer-at-home order applies to the entire state of North Carolina, including all areas of Wake County. 
 How does this apply to people experiencing homelessness?  The restrictions do not apply to people experiencing homelessness. We urge them to find shelter and practice social distancing as much as possible. If you or someone you know needs help, call Oak City Cares at 984-344-9599.
 What if I think my business should be closed, but they’re still asking me to report to work? Teleworking is being strongly encouraged. If you believe your business should be closed, but you are still being asked to show up to work, you should discuss it with your employer.
 Is public transit still operating? GoTriangle is continuing to update its bus and shuttle services in response to COVID-19. Changes affect the routes run by GoRaleigh, GoCary and GoWake Access, as well as routes that run beyond Wake County. Riders may call 919-485-RIDE for information.
 Do I need to wear a face covering?  Yes, on June 24, Gov. Cooper issued a statewide face mask order to help stop the spread of the coronavirus. This order states that people must wear face coverings when in public places where physical distancing is not possible.  In addition, certain businesses must have employees and customers wear face coverings.


 Other COVID-19-Related FAQs


 How is the virus spread? 

According to the CDC:


“The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person:



Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).
Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks.
These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.
Some recent studies have suggested that COVID-19 may be spread by people who are not showing symptoms.
Maintaining good social distance (about 6 feet) is very important in preventing the spread of COVID-19.”



 Can the COVID-19 virus live on surfaces? According to the CDC, it may be possible for a person to "get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes."
 Who is most at risk for contracting COVID-19 in Wake County? While anyone can contract COVID-19, adults older than 65, people with underlying health conditions and pregnant women should take extra precautions as they may be at higher risk for developing serious illness associated with the disease.
 I’m worried about getting COVID-19. What can I do to keep myself and my family safe? 

Some ways to lessen your risk for getting COVID-19 include:




Staying home and using teleworking technology when possible.
Washing your hands.
Avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth.
Practicing social distancing and staying away from sick people.
Cleaning and disinfecting surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.





Covering coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throwing the tissue in the trash.
Staying home if you’re sick and avoiding close contact with others for three days after symptoms resolve.



 What is social distancing? Social distancing is a public health strategy that prevents close contact between people with the aim to reduce opportunities for disease transmission. Tactics that people can use to support social distancing include maintaining six feet of space between each other when in public and avoiding events with large numbers of people. The goal is to slow the spread of COVID-19 so that spread is contained as much as possible and there’s less strain on our healthcare system to care for sick people. The goal is to slow the spread of COVID-19, so fewer people get sick and there’s less strain on our healthcare system. For more information, visit here.
 I have spent time with someone who has COVID-19. What should I do? If you have been in close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19, you are a good candidate for our free drive-thru testing.
You should stay home for 14 days, as much as possible, and monitor yourself for symptoms. If you develop symptoms, self-isolate for 10 days after the onset of symptoms and at least three days after symptoms resolve.
 Do I need to wear a mask to protect myself while in public? Facemasks should be used to help prevent the spread of the disease to others. The use of facemasks is also crucial for health workers and people who are taking care of someone in close settings (at home or in a health care facility).
CDC recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.
The state of North Carolina requires face masks in public anytime you are not in a position to stay at least six feet apart.
 I’m sick with a fever, cough and shortness of breath. What should I do? If you believe you have symptoms of COVID-19, you can be tested at one of the testing locations throughout Wake County.
If serious illness develops, call your primary care provider. If you have trouble breathing, call 9-1-1.
 Are pets at risk of COVID-19? The Wake County Animal Center is monitoring how COVID-19 may affect pets, following reports of pets in the U.S. having tested positive for the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19. Routine testing of domestic animals for COVID-19 is not currently recommended.
Until we know more, the CDC recommends pet owners take the following precautions:

Do not let pets interact with people or other animals outside the household.
Keep cats indoors when possible to prevent them from interacting with other animals or people.
Walk dogs on a leash, maintaining at least 6 feet from other people and animals.
Avoid dog parks or public places where a large number of people and dogs gather.

If you have symptoms or a confirmed case of COVID-19, restrict contact with your pets and other animals, just like you would around other people.

When possible, have another member of your household care for your pets while you are sick.
Avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding.
If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wear a cloth face covering and wash your hands before and after you interact with them.
Follow general guidelines for staying healthy around animals.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. In rare cases, a strain that infects animals can spread to people. The CDC does not know its exact source, but the coronavirus that caused the current outbreak of COVID-19 is suspected to have originated in animals and spread to people.
At this time, there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the new coronavirus, according to the CDC. Based on the limited information available to date, the risk of animals spreading COVID-19 to people is considered to be low.
 My relative lives in a nursing home. I’d like to visit her, but is that safe? Visitors are not currently permitted to visit nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers as ordered by Gov. Roy Cooper.
 I’m a caregiver for a senior citizen. Should I do anything different than usual? The N.C. Department of Health and Human Services has posted a guide for individuals and families to avoid spreading COVID-19 within the home. Just like the general public, caretakers and those who share a home with someone in the increased risk group should take steps to limit their exposure to all kinds of contagious diseases, including COVID-19. If people think they’ve contracted COVID-19, they should take steps to avoid spreading the virus to anyone else, including those in their home or care who are in the higher-risk group. The CDC has additional resources for families to avoid spreading the disease among themselves.
 I am concerned that I may have COVID-19. How can I get tested? Now that community spread has been confirmed in North Carolina, testing by Wake County is focused on those most at risk of developing serious illness, including those over the age of 65, people with underlying health conditions and pregnant women.
If you have symptoms, self-isolate for 10 days after the onset of symptoms. If you develop serious illness, call your primary care doctor for evaluation. If you experience difficulty breathing, call 9-1-1.
 What is community spread? Community spread means that there are COVID-19-positive people who do not know how or where they became infected with the virus.
 Why are healthcare workers focusing on testing at-risk populations? Now that North Carolina has community transmission of the virus, we have moved to a community-based mitigation strategy, aimed at decreasing the spread, especially among those most at risk of serious illness. In this phase, testing and contact tracing are more focused than in the broad-based containment approach we executed early in the outbreak. 
This change in strategy allows us to be more vigilant about conserving resources like personal protective equipment for our healthcare workers and directing testing to those more likely to become seriously ill.
 Which Wake County phone number should I call to ask questions about COVID-19 or share my concerns? We have set up a few different phone numbers depending on your question. Visit our "Contact" page to get the email address of phone number best-suited for your need.
 I’m concerned about kids who don’t have access to nutritional meals now that school is closed. How can I help? The Wake County Public School System, Wake County and its partners are working together to make sure that food is available to hungry students during these unprecedented times. If you would like to volunteer to support food distribution sites, please complete the Food Security and Access Volunteer Form.
Please direct all food donations to the Interfaith Food Shuttle or Food Bank of Central and Eastern NC.
 What is the COVID-19 antibody test? Antibody tests measure proteins called immunoglobulins, that the body produces to help fight off infections. It takes time for our immune systems to make antibodies, which is why the test is done after symptoms go away. The test helps determine if someone had an immune response to COVID-19 but does not tell us if the person has COVID-19 currently.
There is still a lot we don’t know about SarsCoV-2 or COVID-19, including interpretation of Antibody tests. According to the Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL), there are at least 90 tests on the market, and we don’t yet know which ones are best.
 If I test positive for the antibody, does that mean I had—or have—the virus? We aren’t sure. Right now, we don’t know enough about the test to determine its accuracy. It’s unknown whether the test can tell the difference between past infections from SARS-CoV-2 and the six other coronaviruses, four of which cause the common cold. It’s important to note that the antibody test is not a replacement for the diagnostic test.
If you are having symptoms of COVID-19, you should:

Stay away from other people for 10 days after your symptoms begin
When you no longer have symptoms, you should stay home without fever for three more days
If you feel you need medical care, call your doctor. If you have trouble breathing, call 9-1-1.

 If I test positive for the antibody, does that mean I am immune to COVID-19? No. According to the World Health Organization, there is currently not enough evidence to tell us that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection. At this point, until testing improves, and we understand more about the virus, everyone is still considered at risk.
 What can the results be used for? This test is done after recovery from COVID-19, to detect an immune response from exposure. However, until the accuracy of the tests can be determined, there’s not much health officials can do with results. At this point, residents and/or providers do not need to report their results to the Wake County Division of Public Health or the North Carolina Division of Health and Human Services.
Cautions about the use of antibody results

The presence of COVID-19 antibodies cannot currently be used to diagnose someone as having COVID-19.
Positive antibody results cannot tell us with certainty that someone is “immune” to future infection. If protection does exist, we don’t know for how long.
Positive results cannot certify people as safe to work or travel if they’ve already been sick.
Positive results cannot tell us with certainty that the antibody detected is specifically due to COVID-19, and not another coronavirus (e.g. common cold).
Negative results do not rule out the possibility of COVID-19 infection. If you have symptoms of infection, ask your doctor about testing for presence of the virus itself.



 Wake Forward FAQs


 What is Wake Forward? Wake Forward is a small business relief program that aims to help small business owners struggling financially as a result of COVID-19.
The Wake County Board of Commissioners has set aside $5 million in CARES Act funding for this initiative. Of the $5 million, $4 million will fund small business loans, and at least $1 million will fund loans to independent contractors and sole proprietors, such as barbers, hair stylists and massage therapists. Small businesses can apply for two months of lost revenues, up to $50,000.
The program is administered by the NC Rural Economic Development Center Inc.
 Does my business qualify for Wake Forward funding? If your business is in Wake County and you have up to 100 employees, your business may qualify for a Wake Forward loan. Learn more here.
 How does my small business apply for a Wake Forward loan?  The steps are easy! Just visit our Wake Forward webpage to get started.
 I have already applied for the NC Rapid Recovery loan. Do I need to submit another application for Wake Forward? No. If you have already applied for NC Rapid Recovery you are automatically considered for the Wake Forward program. You can only receive one loan from either program.
 I have received the NC Rapid Recovery Loan. Am I eligible for Wake Forward? No. Businesses can only receive one loan from either NC Rapid Recovery or Wake Forward.


 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/guidance-for-residents-2/






Guidance for Residents




Beginning May 22, North Carolina entered the second phase of easing certain restrictions under Gov. Roy Cooper’s reopening plans.
The “Safer-at-Home” phase enables people can gather in small groups of more than 10 people. Restaurants and places of worship can operate at a limited capacity. Public playgrounds remain closed.
On June 24, Gov. Cooper extended the Safer at Home phase until at least July 17. He also issued a statewide face mask order to help stop the spread of the coronavirus. This order states that people must wear face coverings when in public places where physical distancing is not possible.  In addition, certain businesses must have employees and customers wear face coverings.
For more info on North Carolina’s COVID-19 response, call the NC 2-1-1 hotline or consult the state’s COVID-19 guidance resources.
Wear. Wait. Wash.
If you do leave home, practice your W’s: Wear, Wait, Wash

Wear a cloth face covering if you will be with other people.
Wait 6 feet apart. Avoid close contact.
Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or use hand sanitizer.

These actions can protect our families and neighbors as the state takes a cautious step forward while the virus is still circulating.
What To Do If You Feel Sick

If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 contact your health care provider or telehealth program to discuss whether you should be evaluated for testing.
Community partners are providing testing sites throughout Wake County for any experiencing COVID-19 symptoms.
If you fall within one of our specific targeted groups, you may be a good candidate for our free drive-thru testing.
If you have trouble breathing, call 9-1-1.

Who Should be Tested for COVID-19
North Carolina is focused on rapidly increasing testing of people who may not currently have symptoms but may have been exposed to COVID-19. NCDHHS released updated guidance for doctors and clinicians on who should be tested for COVID-19.
This includes:

Anyone with symptoms suggestive of COVID-19.
Close contacts of known positive cases, regardless of symptoms.
Groups of some of the populations with higher risk of exposure or a higher risk of severe disease if they become infected. People in these groups should get tested if they believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19, whether or not they have symptoms.
People who live in or have regular contact with high-risk settings (e.g., long-term care facility, homeless shelter, correctional facility, migrant farmworker camp).
People from historically marginalized populations who have been disproportionately impacted by COVID-19. This fact sheet provides best practices for community testing in historically marginalized populations.
Frontline and essential workers (grocery store clerks, gas station attendants, child care workers, construction sites, processing plants, etc.)
Health care workers or first responders.
People who are at higher risk of severe illness.
People who have attended protests, rallies, or other mass gatherings could have been exposed to someone with COVID-19 or could have exposed others.

Information on Wake County’s testing opportunities can be found here.
Get Your Health Questions Answered
UNC Health, WakeMed Health & Hospitals and Duke Health have also created dedicated COVID-19 health lines to help answer specific health-related questions and to help people assess their risk.
UNC Health
UNC Health patients with coronavirus symptoms should call their primary care provider’s office to determine if and where they should be tested for COVID-19. This may result in a referral to a UNC Health Respiratory Diagnostic Center or to a UNC Virtual Care center.
UNC Health patients can also call a UNC Health Helpline at 1-888-850-2684 before visiting a doctor’s office or an urgent care location. Please note: This HelpLine is experiencing high volumes of calls. The current hours for UNC Health Respiratory Diagnostic Centers are 8 a.m.–5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 8 a.m.–noon Saturday and Sunday.
WakeMed Health & Hospitals
Patients can call the WakeMed Health Help Line at 919-350-5200 between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. to connect with a provider for an initial phone evaluation.
WakeMed Virtual Urgent Care can also help evaluate COVID-19 risks, assess symptoms and provide support by video to help you find the most appropriate level of care while minimizing exposure. You can be seen online 24/7 using a smartphone, tablet or computer without leaving home. Consults are available on-demand, and no appointment is necessary. To get started, visit wakemed.org/virtual-urgent-care or download the WakeMed All Access App.
Duke Health
Duke Primary Care and Urgent Care have opened dedicated Respiratory Care Centers to diagnose and address people experiencing COVID-19-like symptoms. People who are experiencing symptoms can call the Duke Health COVID-19 hotline at 919-385-0429 between 8 a.m. — 8 p.m. seven days a week. Nurses will triage callers and advise on whether self-quarantine, tele-medicine or in-person appointments are recommended.
You can learn more about Duke Health’s COVID-19 response here.
How to Prevent the Spread of COVID-19
We’re all in this together. Do your part by practicing the following health and safety guidelines, and we can help prevent the virus from spreading in our community.

Practice social distancing
Wear a cloth face covering if you will be around other people
Stay home if you are ill
Wash your hands frequently with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds
Clean and disinfect surfaces that get touched often
Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze
Discard tissues after a single use
Take precautions to prevent pets from spreading the virus.

Contact Information

Specific questions about COVID-19 and your risk:
email covid19.questions@wakegov.com  or call 919-856-7044
General feedback:
email covid19.feedback@wakegov.com
Health-related COVID-19 questions:
email covid19.questions@wakegov.com or call 919-856-7044
Business-related questions:
call the state at 2-1-1
To donate cleaning or healthcare supplies:
email volunteer-donations@wakeeoc.com or call 919-856-6946
Housing:
email covid19.housing.hotelfamilies@wakegov.com or call 919-856-5661

Resources for More Information

N.C. Department of Health and Human Services
Frequently Asked Questions from NCDHHS
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Frequently Asked Questions from CDC


 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/service-hours/






COVID-19 Closings and Changes to Service

 CHOOSE AN ITEM BELOWAnimal Services CenterCCBI (Public Fingerprinting Services)Child Support (Department of Human Services)Clinic Services (Department of Human Services)Convenience Centers (Solid Waste)Economic Services (Department of Human Services)Wake County Public LibrariesParks, Recreation & Open SpacesPermits & InspectionsRegional Centers (Department of Human Services)Tax AdministrationVeterans Services OfficeCHOOSE AN ITEM BELOW


Wake County Services Current Status
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many of Wake County’s facilities and services are temporarily closed or operating on alternate schedules.
Select a service from the menu to see the current status.

 Animal Services Center


Animal Services Center
820 Beacon Lake Drive, Raleigh

All services will be by appointment only and will be scheduled noon–6 p.m., seven days a week.
Currently not taking livestock or poultry.

More Information:

Dog Adoption Fees Reduced to $25 / Cat Adoption Fees Waived
Call 919-212-PETS (7387) or visit the Animal Services Center website.


 CCBI (Public Fingerprinting Services)


CCBI (Public Fingerprinting Services)

CCBI will resume fingerprinting services by appointment only beginning July 1. Click here to schedule.  No walk-ins will be admitted.

More Information:

For more information, visit the CCBI website.


 Child Support (Department of Human Services)


Child Support (Department of Human Services)

Closed to the public

More Information:

You may also call the Wake County Child Support Call Center at 919-856-6630 to be connected to your assigned Child Support Services Agent.
Applications are available online at NCChildSupport.com.
Applications may be mailed via request by calling 1-800-992-9457 or 919-856-6630.


 Clinic Services (Department of Human Services)


Clinic Services (Department of Human Services)
Please note that, due to COVID-19, clinic services are limited. Please call the clinic prior to coming to determine if services can be provided.
10 Sunnybrook Road, Raleigh
OPEN Clinics:
(Monday–Friday, 8:30 a.m.–5 p.m.; closed for lunch 12:30–1:30 p.m.)

Prenatal
Modified Child Health Services
Modified Family Planning
Modified HIV/STD
Modified Lab hours
Pharmacy
Modified hours for Immunizations
Dental Clinic (By appointment or Tele-medicine only. Call 919-250-4610.)

CLOSED Clinics (see note below):

WIC
TB

More Information:

If you believe you have a life-threatening emergency, please call 9-1-1 or visit your closest emergency care facility.
Before you visit Sunnybrook for any service, please call 919-212-7000 or visit the Human Services website.

Note on closed clinics:
Telehealth will be available for WIC and TB.

 Convenience Centers (Solid Waste)


Convenience Centers (Solid Waste)

Some material collection is limited. Collection of construction waste will be delayed to prioritize garbage collection. Residents are strongly advised to bring construction waste Tuesday through Friday or consider paying to dump at a private construction landfill.
Please practice social distancing and maintain six feet of space from other customers and site attendants.
Please be patient! An increased volume of waste from spring cleaning, along with social distancing and cleaning of equipment, has increased delays at facilities.

More Information:

For more information, please visit the Waste and Recycling website.


 Economic Services (Department of Human Services)


Economic Services (Department of Human Services)
220 Swinburne St., Raleigh

The Swinburne Building is closed to the public. The only exception is the lobby, which is open from 8:30 a.m.–5 p.m., Monday–Friday, for pick-up of application packets only. 

More Information:

To apply for Medicaid and Food & Nutrition Services, apply online at epass.nc.gov


 Wake County Public Libraries


Wake County Public Libraries

All Wake County Libraries are closed to the public, including book returns.
Currently not accepting book donations at any location.
There will no late fees or any penalties for keeping books until libraries reopen.

More Information:

Residents without a library card can register online and receive a temporary card number and PIN , which will allow you to use all WCPL’s  online resources. The card will not expire while the libraries are closed.
WCPL also offers a mobile app that provides access to an extensive library of online resources including audiobooks and ebooks.


 Parks, Recreation & Open Spaces


Parks, Recreation & Open Spaces

All public programs and events, including shelter reservations and overnight stays, are canceled.
Park offices, bathrooms, playgrounds and centers are closed.
Park and preserve grounds remain open.
Many of Wake County Parks have virtual tours available.

More Information:

For more information, visit the Parks & Recreation website.


 Permits & Inspections


Permits & Inspections
Wake County Office Building, 336 Fayetteville St., Raleigh

The time to issue permits and inspections may slow down during this period.
The Permit Counter will only open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m.
The GIS (Maps) counter will only open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m.

More Information:

Many permitting tasks can be conducted via our online permitting portal. For additional questions, please call: 919-856-6310.


 Regional Centers (Department of Human Services)


Regional Centers (Department of Human Services)

All County Regional Centers (Northern, Southern, Eastern, Western and Millbrook Human Services Centers) are closed to the public.

More Information:

Limited clinical services are available at 10 Sunnybrook Road, Raleigh, NC 27610. Please call 919-212-7000 for more information.
Tax services and payments are available at the Tax Administration office (see below).
Birth and death records are available at the Register of Deeds office, located at Wake County Justice Center, 301 S. McDowell St. Suite 3800, Raleigh NC 27601 – 1st Floor.


 Tax Administration


Tax Administration
Wake County Justice Center, 301 S. McDowell St., Suite 3800, Raleigh, 3rd Floor

Only open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m.

More Information:

Online services, including access to online payments, and answers to your tax questions can be found on the Tax Administration website.
For additional questions, please call: 919-856-5400.


 Veterans Services Office


Veterans Services Office
3000 Falstaff Road, Raleigh, NC 27610

Recommend scheduling an appointment.
Only open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m., at the Falstaff location only.

More Information:

Many services are available online at the Veterans Services website.
For additional questions, please call: 919-212-VETS.


 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-faqs/#stay-at-home-order






Wake County FAQs

 


North Carolina has moved into Phase 2 of the Governor’s plans to reopen. During this phase, the Stay-at-Home order has been lifted, but some restrictions are still in place for residents and businesses.

 Safer-at-Home OrderOther COVID-19-Related FAQsWake Forward FAQsSafer-at-Home Order


 What is NOT allowed under the safer-at-home order? As of May 1, Wake County has been following the statewide stay-at-home order issued by Gov. Roy Cooper. For more information, call the state’s hotline at 2-1-1 or consult its frequently asked questions.
On May 8, the Governor’s phased approach to easing restrictions of travel, business operations and gatherings went into effect with Phase 1.
On May 22, the Governor’s approach to easing restrictions lifted the stay-at-home order and enter Phase 2 of reopening.
Under the current order:

Restaurants can reopen dining rooms at 50% capacity. All staff must wear face coverings and practice strict cleaning procedures.
Personal care businesses, including barber shops, hair and nail salons, tattoo parlors, tanning salons and massage therapists, must also operate at 50 percent capacity. These businesses must be by appointment only.
Bars, nightclubs, gyms and health clubs must remain closed.
Pools may reopen at 50 percent capacity.
Overnight and day camps can open with safety rules.
Movie theaters, bowling alleys, and other indoor entertainment venues remain closed.
Playgrounds will also stay closed.

 What types of gatherings are banned? Gatherings of more than 10 people in a single indoor space remains prohibited. In outdoor spaces, gatherings of more than 25 people are prohibited.
 Can construction and landscaping continue? Yes. Residential and commercial construction and landscaping are essential services.
 Can I still attend church or another religious service? The mass gathering limit and other requirements of Phase 2 do not apply to worship, religious and spiritual gatherings, funeral ceremonies, wedding ceremonies and other activities constituting the exercise of First Amendment rights.
Individuals are encouraged to follow the Three Ws to reduce the chance of spreading COVID-19. Read more information here.
 We had a death in the family. Can we hold a funeral? Yes, but attendees should maintain social distancing. Funeral homes, crematoriums, cemeteries and providers of mortuary services are essential services.
 What types of sporting activities are allowed? Can I play golf or tennis? Public and private gatherings of 25 or more people are prohibited outdoors. However, spending time outdoors and exercising are important for maintaining physical and mental health. While private sporting facilities are closed, we encourage families to take advantage of public recreation areas for activities that allow proper social distancing. For instance, basketball and soccer games are off limits because everyone touches the same ball and players come into close contact. Families may play golf or tennis, provided facilities are open and social distancing is practiced at all times.
 What areas of the county does this apply to? The Governor's safer-at-home order applies to the entire state of North Carolina, including all areas of Wake County. 
 How does this apply to people experiencing homelessness?  The restrictions do not apply to people experiencing homelessness. We urge them to find shelter and practice social distancing as much as possible. If you or someone you know needs help, call Oak City Cares at 984-344-9599.
 What if I think my business should be closed, but they’re still asking me to report to work? Teleworking is being strongly encouraged. If you believe your business should be closed, but you are still being asked to show up to work, you should discuss it with your employer.
 Is public transit still operating? GoTriangle is continuing to update its bus and shuttle services in response to COVID-19. Changes affect the routes run by GoRaleigh, GoCary and GoWake Access, as well as routes that run beyond Wake County. Riders may call 919-485-RIDE for information.
 Do I need to wear a face covering?  Yes, on June 24, Gov. Cooper issued a statewide face mask order to help stop the spread of the coronavirus. This order states that people must wear face coverings when in public places where physical distancing is not possible.  In addition, certain businesses must have employees and customers wear face coverings.


 Other COVID-19-Related FAQs


 How is the virus spread? 

According to the CDC:


“The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person:



Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).
Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks.
These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.
Some recent studies have suggested that COVID-19 may be spread by people who are not showing symptoms.
Maintaining good social distance (about 6 feet) is very important in preventing the spread of COVID-19.”



 Can the COVID-19 virus live on surfaces? According to the CDC, it may be possible for a person to "get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes."
 Who is most at risk for contracting COVID-19 in Wake County? While anyone can contract COVID-19, adults older than 65, people with underlying health conditions and pregnant women should take extra precautions as they may be at higher risk for developing serious illness associated with the disease.
 I’m worried about getting COVID-19. What can I do to keep myself and my family safe? 

Some ways to lessen your risk for getting COVID-19 include:




Staying home and using teleworking technology when possible.
Washing your hands.
Avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth.
Practicing social distancing and staying away from sick people.
Cleaning and disinfecting surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.





Covering coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throwing the tissue in the trash.
Staying home if you’re sick and avoiding close contact with others for three days after symptoms resolve.



 What is social distancing? Social distancing is a public health strategy that prevents close contact between people with the aim to reduce opportunities for disease transmission. Tactics that people can use to support social distancing include maintaining six feet of space between each other when in public and avoiding events with large numbers of people. The goal is to slow the spread of COVID-19 so that spread is contained as much as possible and there’s less strain on our healthcare system to care for sick people. The goal is to slow the spread of COVID-19, so fewer people get sick and there’s less strain on our healthcare system. For more information, visit here.
 I have spent time with someone who has COVID-19. What should I do? If you have been in close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19, you are a good candidate for our free drive-thru testing.
You should stay home for 14 days, as much as possible, and monitor yourself for symptoms. If you develop symptoms, self-isolate for 10 days after the onset of symptoms and at least three days after symptoms resolve.
 Do I need to wear a mask to protect myself while in public? Facemasks should be used to help prevent the spread of the disease to others. The use of facemasks is also crucial for health workers and people who are taking care of someone in close settings (at home or in a health care facility).
CDC recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.
The state of North Carolina requires face masks in public anytime you are not in a position to stay at least six feet apart.
 I’m sick with a fever, cough and shortness of breath. What should I do? If you believe you have symptoms of COVID-19, you can be tested at one of the testing locations throughout Wake County.
If serious illness develops, call your primary care provider. If you have trouble breathing, call 9-1-1.
 Are pets at risk of COVID-19? The Wake County Animal Center is monitoring how COVID-19 may affect pets, following reports of pets in the U.S. having tested positive for the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19. Routine testing of domestic animals for COVID-19 is not currently recommended.
Until we know more, the CDC recommends pet owners take the following precautions:

Do not let pets interact with people or other animals outside the household.
Keep cats indoors when possible to prevent them from interacting with other animals or people.
Walk dogs on a leash, maintaining at least 6 feet from other people and animals.
Avoid dog parks or public places where a large number of people and dogs gather.

If you have symptoms or a confirmed case of COVID-19, restrict contact with your pets and other animals, just like you would around other people.

When possible, have another member of your household care for your pets while you are sick.
Avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding.
If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wear a cloth face covering and wash your hands before and after you interact with them.
Follow general guidelines for staying healthy around animals.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. In rare cases, a strain that infects animals can spread to people. The CDC does not know its exact source, but the coronavirus that caused the current outbreak of COVID-19 is suspected to have originated in animals and spread to people.
At this time, there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the new coronavirus, according to the CDC. Based on the limited information available to date, the risk of animals spreading COVID-19 to people is considered to be low.
 My relative lives in a nursing home. I’d like to visit her, but is that safe? Visitors are not currently permitted to visit nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers as ordered by Gov. Roy Cooper.
 I’m a caregiver for a senior citizen. Should I do anything different than usual? The N.C. Department of Health and Human Services has posted a guide for individuals and families to avoid spreading COVID-19 within the home. Just like the general public, caretakers and those who share a home with someone in the increased risk group should take steps to limit their exposure to all kinds of contagious diseases, including COVID-19. If people think they’ve contracted COVID-19, they should take steps to avoid spreading the virus to anyone else, including those in their home or care who are in the higher-risk group. The CDC has additional resources for families to avoid spreading the disease among themselves.
 I am concerned that I may have COVID-19. How can I get tested? Now that community spread has been confirmed in North Carolina, testing by Wake County is focused on those most at risk of developing serious illness, including those over the age of 65, people with underlying health conditions and pregnant women.
If you have symptoms, self-isolate for 10 days after the onset of symptoms. If you develop serious illness, call your primary care doctor for evaluation. If you experience difficulty breathing, call 9-1-1.
 What is community spread? Community spread means that there are COVID-19-positive people who do not know how or where they became infected with the virus.
 Why are healthcare workers focusing on testing at-risk populations? Now that North Carolina has community transmission of the virus, we have moved to a community-based mitigation strategy, aimed at decreasing the spread, especially among those most at risk of serious illness. In this phase, testing and contact tracing are more focused than in the broad-based containment approach we executed early in the outbreak. 
This change in strategy allows us to be more vigilant about conserving resources like personal protective equipment for our healthcare workers and directing testing to those more likely to become seriously ill.
 Which Wake County phone number should I call to ask questions about COVID-19 or share my concerns? We have set up a few different phone numbers depending on your question. Visit our "Contact" page to get the email address of phone number best-suited for your need.
 I’m concerned about kids who don’t have access to nutritional meals now that school is closed. How can I help? The Wake County Public School System, Wake County and its partners are working together to make sure that food is available to hungry students during these unprecedented times. If you would like to volunteer to support food distribution sites, please complete the Food Security and Access Volunteer Form.
Please direct all food donations to the Interfaith Food Shuttle or Food Bank of Central and Eastern NC.
 What is the COVID-19 antibody test? Antibody tests measure proteins called immunoglobulins, that the body produces to help fight off infections. It takes time for our immune systems to make antibodies, which is why the test is done after symptoms go away. The test helps determine if someone had an immune response to COVID-19 but does not tell us if the person has COVID-19 currently.
There is still a lot we don’t know about SarsCoV-2 or COVID-19, including interpretation of Antibody tests. According to the Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL), there are at least 90 tests on the market, and we don’t yet know which ones are best.
 If I test positive for the antibody, does that mean I had—or have—the virus? We aren’t sure. Right now, we don’t know enough about the test to determine its accuracy. It’s unknown whether the test can tell the difference between past infections from SARS-CoV-2 and the six other coronaviruses, four of which cause the common cold. It’s important to note that the antibody test is not a replacement for the diagnostic test.
If you are having symptoms of COVID-19, you should:

Stay away from other people for 10 days after your symptoms begin
When you no longer have symptoms, you should stay home without fever for three more days
If you feel you need medical care, call your doctor. If you have trouble breathing, call 9-1-1.

 If I test positive for the antibody, does that mean I am immune to COVID-19? No. According to the World Health Organization, there is currently not enough evidence to tell us that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection. At this point, until testing improves, and we understand more about the virus, everyone is still considered at risk.
 What can the results be used for? This test is done after recovery from COVID-19, to detect an immune response from exposure. However, until the accuracy of the tests can be determined, there’s not much health officials can do with results. At this point, residents and/or providers do not need to report their results to the Wake County Division of Public Health or the North Carolina Division of Health and Human Services.
Cautions about the use of antibody results

The presence of COVID-19 antibodies cannot currently be used to diagnose someone as having COVID-19.
Positive antibody results cannot tell us with certainty that someone is “immune” to future infection. If protection does exist, we don’t know for how long.
Positive results cannot certify people as safe to work or travel if they’ve already been sick.
Positive results cannot tell us with certainty that the antibody detected is specifically due to COVID-19, and not another coronavirus (e.g. common cold).
Negative results do not rule out the possibility of COVID-19 infection. If you have symptoms of infection, ask your doctor about testing for presence of the virus itself.



 Wake Forward FAQs


 What is Wake Forward? Wake Forward is a small business relief program that aims to help small business owners struggling financially as a result of COVID-19.
The Wake County Board of Commissioners has set aside $5 million in CARES Act funding for this initiative. Of the $5 million, $4 million will fund small business loans, and at least $1 million will fund loans to independent contractors and sole proprietors, such as barbers, hair stylists and massage therapists. Small businesses can apply for two months of lost revenues, up to $50,000.
The program is administered by the NC Rural Economic Development Center Inc.
 Does my business qualify for Wake Forward funding? If your business is in Wake County and you have up to 100 employees, your business may qualify for a Wake Forward loan. Learn more here.
 How does my small business apply for a Wake Forward loan?  The steps are easy! Just visit our Wake Forward webpage to get started.
 I have already applied for the NC Rapid Recovery loan. Do I need to submit another application for Wake Forward? No. If you have already applied for NC Rapid Recovery you are automatically considered for the Wake Forward program. You can only receive one loan from either program.
 I have received the NC Rapid Recovery Loan. Am I eligible for Wake Forward? No. Businesses can only receive one loan from either NC Rapid Recovery or Wake Forward.


 



Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/1





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreak-at-long-term-care-facility-in-raleigh-2/


On July 11, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreak at Long-Term Care Facility in RaleighOn July 11, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at Tower Rehabilitation and Nursing Center in Raleigh. Our Public Health team has received test results showing staff members have tested positive for the virus at this facility, which is located at 3609 Bond Street.No additional information about residents or employees within the facility will be disclosed.The N.C. Department of Health and Human Services defines an outbreak as two or more people – residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times;Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact information for people to use to ask specific questions.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreaks-at-three-care-facilities-in-raleigh/


On July 10, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreaks at Three Care Facilities in RaleighOn July 10, 2020Wake County has confirmed COVID-19 outbreaks at three long-term care facilities in Raleigh. Defined by the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services, an outbreak involves two or more people (residents or employees) testing positive for the virus.Today’s confirmed outbreaks include:Two residents and two staff testing positive at Universal Healthcare, located at 5201 Clarks Fork Drive in Raleigh;Two staff testing positive at Raleigh Rehabilitation Center, located at 616 Wade Ave. in Raleigh; andOne resident and one staff testing positive at Wake Assisted Living, located at 2800 Kidd Road in Raleigh.No additional information about residents or
employees within the facilities will be disclosed.The county recommends that, in addition to
adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities follow
its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact information for people to use to ask specific questions.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.  


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreak-at-long-term-care-facility-in-raleigh/


On July 8, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreak at Long-Term Care Facility in RaleighOn July 8, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at The Oaks at Whitaker Glen-Mayview in Raleigh. Our Public Health team has received test results showing staff members have tested positive for the virus at this facility, which is located at 513 East Whitaker Mill Road. No additional information about residents or employees within the facility will be disclosed. The N.C. Department of Health and Human
Services defines an outbreak as two or more people – residents or employees –
testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in addition to
adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities follow
its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact information for people to use to ask specific questions.   The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/board-approves-1-7-million-in-funds-for-homeless-prevention-amidst-covid-19-recovery/


On July 6, 2020

Board Approves $1.7 Million in Funds for Homeless Prevention Amidst COVID-19 RecoveryOn July 6, 2020The Wake County
Board of Commissioners has voted unanimously to appropriate an additional $1.7
million in federal CARES Act funds to help prevent homelessness in the county.
This funding will be part of Phase II of the House Wake! strategic plan. The Housing
Affordability and Community Revitalization Department will use these dollars
for eviction prevention and to meet the housing and community development needs
of low-to- moderate income families impacted by COVID-19. “This funding will strengthen our commitment to provide critical support for county residents who are homeless or on the brink of homelessness due to the virus,” said Wake County Commissioner Sig Hutchinson. “This effort is part of our long-term goal to move as many people as possible into a secure and stable housing situation.”  Previously, at
its May 4 meeting, the board approved $2 million in federal funding for House
Wake! to address to the first wave of housing insecurity. These additional
funds will continue to support those impacted by COVID-19 hardships such as job
loss, wage reduction or illness. In June, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development announced $2.6 billion in Emergency Solutions Grants to help fund support for homeless Americans and those at risk of becoming homeless due to COVID-19.   Activities authorized include: Making more emergency shelters available; Providing hotel/motel rooms for homeless
families or residents; Helping with essential services such as
childcare, education services, employment assistance, health and mental health
services, legal services and transportation; and Preventing homelessness by rapidly rehousing
individuals or families. “We recognize
that the enormity of the challenges we face as a community can only be
addressed through close collaboration with our partners,” said Lorena McDowell,
Wake County Housing Affordability and Community Revitalization director. “Together,
we continue to work to ensure that, even in the face of a global pandemic,
all Wake County residents have access to and can retain safe, affordable
housing.”  House Wake!
is a strategic plan to minimize the effects of COVID-19 on homeless and
precariously housed Wake County residents, while maximizing opportunities for
positive long-term outcomes.This plan uses and coordinates federal, state and local
funding to address the COVID-19 crisis within our homeless and precariously
housed populations. It aims to move the maximum number of people possible to
housing stability.During Phase I of the program, Wake County awarded $5.77
million in funding towards 13 community organizations who provide much needed
services to vulnerable populations. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/drive-thru-covid-19-testing-available-in-mid-july-in-raleigh-for-at-risk-residents/


On July 6, 2020

Drive-Thru COVID-19 Testing  Available in Mid-July in Raleigh for At-Risk ResidentsOn July 6, 2020The Wake County Public Health
team will continue its drive-thru COVID-19 testing for at-risk residents next
week at the Wake County Commons Building, located at 4011 Carya Drive, from
July 13-14 and July 16-18.The testing, which will run
from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m., is free, but people must follow a three-step process
to claim their spot.Step 1: Select the time slot that works best for their schedule by clicking on the “Sign Up” button here for the date they’d like to be tested.Step 2: Complete this registration form.Step 3: Print the completed registration form or have it saved in your email for access at the testing site. Tests are reserved for those
who:Have COVID-like
symptoms, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, and loss
of smell;Have been in
close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19;Are healthcare
workers or first responders;Work in high-risk
settings like long-term care facilities, correctional facilities or homeless
shelters;Are 65 years old
or older;Have underlying
health conditions;Are a member of a
vulnerable or historically marginalized population; Have attended a
mass gathering or protest; or Are a frontline
worker in a setting where social distancing is difficult.Candidates who fit the criteria for drive-thru testing should visit our website to schedule an appointment. By selecting a specific 30-minute window of time for testing, residents will avoid long lines and help the process flow smoothly for everyone. If multiple people are coming in a single vehicle, be sure that each one registers.Wake County Public Health plans to offer additional testing opportunities at different locations throughout the county in the coming days and weeks. Updated information will be shared at covid19.wakegov.com/testing.In addition to Wake County testing sites, several community partners are offering tests. To find a testing site near you, click here. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-two-new-covid-19-outbreaks-in-raleigh/


On July 2, 2020

Wake County Identifies Two New COVID-19 Outbreaks in RaleighOn July 2, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 in Raleigh at Sunrise at North Hills and Abbotswood at Stonehenge, two assisted living communities for older adults.Our Public Health team has received test results showing positive cases of the virus in staff and residents at the two facilities, at 615 Spring Forest Road and 7900 Creedmoor Road, respectively. No additional information about residents or employees within the facilities will be disclosed.The N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services defines an outbreak as two or more people – residents or
employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in
addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities
follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times;Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact information for people to use to ask specific questions. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/energy-assistance-program-helps-paying-cooling-bills-this-summer/


On July 2, 2020

Energy Assistance Program Helps Paying Cooling Bills this SummerOn July 2, 2020Families
who are having difficulty paying their utility bills this summer may qualify
for emergency funding to help cover the costs of their cooling bills. The
Crisis Intervention Program (CIP) is an annual Wake County program that
provides assistance to low-income families or people who are experiencing a
cooling-related crisis. In past years, people were required to apply in person
at county locations. However, due to the impacts of COVID-19 and temporary
closures of some county buildings, residents will now need to apply from the
safety of their homes.This year, people may access an application form by visiting Wake County’s Energy Assistance webpage. Once completed, the form may be submitted: By emailing to hs.energy@wakegov.com By faxing 919-212-7085If people do not have access to email or fax, they may call Human Services for assistance at 919-212-7000.“Energy
assistance is going to look different this year but is still available for
those who need it,” said Janny Mealor, program manager for Wake County’s Energy
Assistance. “COVID-19 has hit some families hard due to job losses, furloughs
and other extenuating circumstances. We know how far these emergency funds
could go in keeping folks up to date on their bills and battling the heat this
summer.”A
household is considered in crisis and therefore eligible for assistance if it
is experiencing or is in danger of experiencing a life-threatening or health
related emergency and assistance is not available from any other source. A
life-threatening emergency is defined as a household which has no cooling
source or has a disconnect notice for primary cooling service, and the health
or well-being of a household member would be in danger if the crisis was not
alleviated. In
order to apply for the program, residents must: Have received a past due notice or disconnection notice
     from utility service provider, Provide income verification, andShow proof of residence in Wake County. Since
its inception more than 15 years ago, the program has helped thousands of residents
avoid service cut-offs. In 2019, over 11,000 applicants received assistance. Applications will be received until funds are exhausted and is available on a first-come, first-served basis. All payments from the program will go directly to the utility provider/vendor.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreak-in-raleigh-2/


On July 1, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreak in RaleighOn July 1, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at Capital Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Raleigh. This is the second outbreak at the long-term care facility, which is located at 3000 Holston Lane. Our Public Health team has received
test results showing both residents and staff have tested positive for the
virus at the facility. No additional information about residents or employees
within the facility will be disclosed. The N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services defines an outbreak as two or more people – residents or
employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in
addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities
follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff
wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting
employees from working at other locations;Practicing social
distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning
surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact information for people to use to ask specific questions.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.  


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/house-wake-funds-organizations-serving-vulnerable-populations-during-pandemic/


On July 1, 2020

House Wake! Funds Organizations Serving Vulnerable Populations during PandemicOn July 1, 2020The
Wake County Department of Housing Affordability & Community Revitalization
has identified 13 community organizations that will receive funding from Phase
I of the department’s House Wake! strategic plan. Each
of these organizations provides much-needed services and support to vulnerable
populations in Wake County, including individuals, families, youth, victims of
domestic violence, and youth and adults in the correctional system.“COVID-19
has caused some county residents to lose their jobs, and without a paycheck,
they are now homeless or are on the verge of homelessness,” said Wake County
Commissioner Dr. James West. “I’m proud that we’re stepping up to fund
organizations that will help secure shelter and, better yet, permanent homes
for residents who are struggling during this unprecedented time.”  Wake County has committed nearly $11.5 million in federal funding for these efforts through Phase I of the House Wake! Strategic Plan, with more than $5.77 million of this funding available directly to partnering community agencies. The county will continue to monitor and respond to community needs, in an effort to ensure that all Wake County residents have access to safe, affordable housing during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.The
organizations receiving funding during Phase I are: Oak City CaresThe Raleigh/Wake Partnership to End and Prevent
     HomelessnessCatholic Charities of the Diocese of RaleighInterActFamilies TogetherHaven HouseTriangle Family ServicesPassage HomeCapital Area Workforce DevelopmentThe Green Chair ProjectHealing TransitionsThe Salvation Army of Wake CountyUrban Ministries of Wake County About House Wake! House
Wake! is a strategic plan to minimize the effects of COVID-19 on homeless and
precariously housed Wake County residents, while maximizing opportunities for
positive long-term outcomes.This
strategic plan uses and coordinates federal, state and local funding to address
the COVID-19 crisis within our homeless and precariously housed populations and
aims to move the maximum number of people possible to housing stability.###


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreak-in-cary/


On June 30, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreak in CaryOn June 30, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at Cary Health and Rehabilitation Center, a skilled nursing center. Our Public Health team has received
test results showing positive cases of the virus in staff at the facility, located
at 6590 Tryon Road. No additional information about residents or employees
within the facility will be disclosed. The N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services defines an outbreak as two or more people – residents or
employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in
addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities
follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff
wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting
employees from working at other locations;Practicing social
distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning
surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our multilingual COVID-19
webpage,
which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact
information for people to use to ask specific questions. 

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/2





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/drive-thru-covid-19-testing-july-9-11-in-apex-for-at-risk-residents/


On June 30, 2020

Drive-Thru COVID-19 Testing July 9–11 in Apex for At-Risk ResidentsOn June 30, 2020The Wake County Public Health team continues its drive-thru COVID-19 testing for at-risk residents at Apex High School, located at 1501 Laura Duncan Road, from July 9 to July 11.The testing, which will run
from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m., is free, but people must follow a three-step process
to claim their spot.Step 1: Select the time slot that works best for their schedule by clicking on the “Sign Up” button here for the date they’d like to be tested.Step 2: Complete this registration form.Step 3: Print the completed registration form or have it saved in your email for access at the testing site. Tests are reserved for those
who:Have COVID-like
symptoms, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, and loss
of smell;Have been in
close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19;Are healthcare
workers or first responders;Work in high-risk
settings like long-term care facilities, correctional facilities or homeless
shelters;Are 65 years old
or older;Have underlying
health conditions;Are a member of a
vulnerable or historically marginalized population; Have attended a
mass gathering or protest; or Are a frontline
worker in a setting where social distancing is difficult.Candidates who fit the criteria for drive-thru testing should visit our website to schedule an appointment. By selecting a specific 30-minute window of time for testing, residents will avoid long lines and help the process flow smoothly for everyone. If multiple people are coming in a single vehicle, be sure that each one registers.Wake County Public Health plans to offer additional testing opportunities at different locations throughout the county in the coming days and weeks. Updated information will be shared at covid19.wakegov.com/testing.In addition to Wake County testing sites, several community partners are offering tests. To find a testing site near you, click here. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of
frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email
address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19.

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreak-in-raleigh/


On June 26, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreak in RaleighOn June 26, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak
of COVID-19 at Litchford Falls, a nursing and rehabilitation facility in
Raleigh. Our Public Health team has received
test results showing positive cases of the virus in residents and staff at the
facility, located at 8200 Litchford Road. No additional information about residents
or employees within the facility will be disclosed. The N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services defines an outbreak as two or more people – residents or
employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in
addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities
follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff
wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting
employees from working at other locations;Practicing social
distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning
surfaces with disinfectant.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our multilingual COVID-19
webpage,
which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact
information for people to use to ask specific questions. 

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wakemed-wake-county-and-city-of-raleigh-collaborating-to-distribute-face-masks-in-se-raleigh/


On June 26, 2020

WakeMed, Wake County and City of Raleigh Collaborating to Distribute Face Masks in SE RaleighOn June 26, 2020Residents of the 27610 ZIP code will have the chance to pick up free, protective face masks thanks to a collaboration between WakeMed, Wake County and the City of Raleigh. The pilot program aims to distribute 30,000 masks at locations within the community, by volunteers and community leaders over the coming weeks. Over 5,000 masks have already been given out since June 20.“We know that this neighborhood has the highest number of known
COVID-19-positive cases in Wake County,” said Derrick Remer, City of Raleigh
Emergency Management director. “The goal of our collaborative effort is to slow
the spread of the virus within one of our most vulnerable communities. In addition to having the most cases in the county, the 27610
ZIP code also has one of the highest COVID-19 caseloads in the state. This
collaborative effort will be funded through a combination of the county’s CARES
Act funding, WakeMed Foundation and in-kind staff services.  “Wearing a mask is one of the most effective ways we can help to
reduce transmission, said Donald Gintzig, WakeMed president and CEO. “Providing
this resource to those especially at risk helps people do their part to slow
the spread of disease within their community. This effort is part of our
commitment to the health and wellbeing of the communities we serve.”Upcoming distribution sites include:Wake County’s drive-thru testing June 25–27 for those who get tested at Southeast Raleigh Magnet High School starting at 10 a.m. until masks run out. Alpha Kappa Alpha’s community outreach at 2325 Garner Road, Raleigh on June 27 starting at 10 a.m. until masks run out or until 2 p.m., whichever occurs first.  Gethsemane Seventh Day Adventist food drive on June 27 from 12:30 p.m. until gone.  More locations and dates
will be shared in the coming days. The community organizations currently involved in the program
include: A. Phillip Randolph InstituteAlpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc., Alpha Theta Omega Chapter Catholic Parrish Outreach City of Raleigh Crosby Advocacy GroupDelta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc., Raleigh Alumnae Chapter DHIC – Washington Terrace El Pueblo Fertile Ground Food Cooperative NC Counts Coalition Omega Psi Fraternity Inc., Xi Mu Mu Chapter UNC Healthcare Wake County WakeMed Health and HospitalsOrganizations
interested in joining in the program’s efforts can email verna.best@wakegov.com.  “It
is particularly important that organizations and partners who focus on some of
the neighborhoods in 27610 be involved in the planning and implementation,”
said Regina Petteway, Wake County Human Services director. “We want to ensure
all of our residents in this area have access to protective masks.” At this time, masks will only be distributed in
the 27610 ZIP code area. Based on the need demonstrated in the pilot program, community
partners will continue to work collaboratively to establish additional
distribution opportunities throughout the county.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreak-at-three-long-term-care-facilities/


On June 25, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreak at Three Long-Term Care FacilitiesOn June 25, 2020Wake County has confirmed outbreaks of COVID-19 at three long-term care facilities throughout the county: Tower Rehabilitation & Nursing Center in Raleigh; Waltonwood Senior Living in Cary; and Hillside Nursing and Rehab in Wake Forest.Our Public Health team has received test results showing staff at all three facilities tested positive for the virus, while Hillside and Waltonwood also have residents who have tested positive. No additional information about residents or employees within the facilities will be disclosed.The N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or
more people – residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that the
facility follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times;Prohibiting visitors from entering;Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact information for people to use to ask specific questions. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-new-outbreak-of-covid-19-in-raleigh-3/


On June 23, 2020

Wake County Identifies New Outbreak of COVID-19 in RaleighOn June 23, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak
of COVID-19 at Brighton Gardens of Raleigh, a senior living community.  Our Public Health team has received
test results showing positive cases of the virus in staff at the facility, located
at 3101 Duraleigh Road. No additional information about residents or employees
within the facility will be disclosed. “Given the nature of
COVID-19, we’re not surprised to continue to see outbreaks in congregate care
facilities,” said Wake County EMS Director/Medical Director Dr. Jose Cabanas, who is overseeing the Wake County
Emergency Operations Center’s public health branch today. “Our Public Health
team is working with Brighton Gardens on additional steps they can take to
ensure the safety of residents and staff.” The N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services defines an outbreak as two or more people – residents or
employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in
addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities
follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff
wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting
employees from working at other locations;Practicing social
distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning
surfaces with disinfectant.Staying Updated
Wake County has
made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our multilingual COVID-19
webpage,
which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact
information for people to use to ask specific questions. 

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-hiring-to-support-continued-covid-19-response/


On June 23, 2020

Wake County Hiring to Support Continued COVID-19 ResponseOn June 23, 2020People seeking jobs during the current economic downturn may find new employment opportunities with Wake County. The county plans to hire about 235 temporary staff members over the next month to support its ongoing response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Most of the positions will support the public health
function of the COVID-19 response, including contact tracing, epidemiology and
nursing, while other roles will support operations and logistics management for
our efforts to fight the virus.“We are now on day 112 of
running our Emergency Operations Center – the longest response in Wake County’s
history – and it’s not going to end any time soon,” said Wake County Manager
David Ellis. “As we look at how we can start reopening our facilities and begin
providing services to our residents again, we must temporarily expand our
workforce, so we can continue leading the fight against COVID-19 in a
sustainable way.”The EOC typically relies on about
160 county employees every day to achieve its goals. Without these staff
members, the EOC can’t function. But, the county’s departments can’t begin the
reopening process unless these employees return to their regular positions. By
hiring temporary workers, the county can effectively do both. The county will use CARES Act
funding to pay salaries and offer benefits to the temporary workers, which will
enable the county to:Create a
dedicated workforce to sustain the county’s COVID-19 response efforts;Shift Wake County
staff who’ve been deployed to the EOC back to their regularly scheduled duties;
and Continue to
nimbly act in the community’s best interest as we learn more about the impacts
of COVID-19 and adjust strategies and tactics as needed.“While we learn more every
day about this novel virus, there is still much we don’t know,” said Chris
Kippes, Wake County Public Health Division Director. “Having a dedicated staff
to support our response efforts will allow us to continue to share the latest information
seamlessly, quickly and efficiently with an end goal of protecting the health
of our community.”    Interviewing and hiring for
the positions, which are benefits-eligible, are expected to begin in July and
continue on a rolling basis. Additional positions will be added in the coming
days and weeks. These jobs are temporary and expected to last through at least
Nov. 30, 2020.To view the positions and qualifications, candidates can visit wakegov.com/employment. About Wake County’s Emergency Response to COVID-19On March 5, Wake County opened its Emergency Operations Center to ramp up the county’s response efforts to the COVID-19 pandemic. The EOC, which comprises multi-disciplinary staff from across the county, is responsible for creating strategies, managing resources, directing emergency operations, and coordinating efforts with municipalities, the state and other partners. EOC staff share a common goal: to stop the spread of COVID-19 in our community and protect the public health.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our multilingual COVID-19
webpage,
which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email
address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19.

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-new-outbreak-of-covid-19-in-raleigh-2/


On June 19, 2020

Wake County Identifies New Outbreak of COVID-19 in RaleighOn June 19, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at Springmoor Life Care Retirement Community, a continuing care retirement community in Raleigh.Our Public Health team has received test results showing positive cases of the virus in residents and staff at the facility, located at 1500 Sawmill Road. No additional information about residents or employees within the facility will be disclosed.“As we ease restrictions on the public, it is imperative that we do all we can to protect our most vulnerable residents,” said Dr. Kim McDonald, Wake County medical director. “To that end, we are working with Springmoor on measures they can implement to ensure the health and safety of their residents and staff and contain the virus to slow – and hopefully stop – its spread.”The N.C. Department of Health and Human Services defines an outbreak as two or more people – residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times;Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as contact information for people to use to ask specific questions.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-new-outbreak-of-covid-19-in-garner/


On June 18, 2020

Wake County Identifies New Outbreak of COVID-19 in GarnerOn June 18, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at The Laurels of Forest Glenn, a skilled nursing and rehabilitation center in Garner.Our Public Health team has received test results showing positive cases of the virus in residents at the facility, located at 1101 Hartwell Street, Garner. No additional information about residents or employees within the facility will be disclosed.“COVID-19 can spread quickly
when people live close to each other, as they do in long-term care facilities,”
said Dr. Kim McDonald, Wake County medical director. “Quick action can slow the
spread of the virus, and we’re working closely with The Laurels of Forest Glenn
to protect their residents and staff.”The N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or
more people – residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in
addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities
follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times;Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible;Frequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant; andRestricting visitors.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/three-more-locations-set-for-drive-thru-covid-19-testing/


On June 18, 2020

Three More Locations Set for Drive-Thru COVID-19 TestingOn June 18, 2020Wake County has secured three additional locations for testing residents at risk of COVID-19 over the next few weeks. On June 25, 26 and 27, testing will be available at Southeast Raleigh Magnet High School, located at 2600 Rock Quarry Road, Raleigh;On June 29 and 30, testing will be available at Millbrook Magnet High School, located at 2201 Spring Forest Road, Raleigh; andOn July 6 and 7, testing will be available at the McKimmon Conference and Training Center, located on N.C. State campus at 1101 Gorman St., Raleigh.Testing will run each day from
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. While tests are free, people must follow a three-step process
to claim their spots.Step 1: Select the time slot that works best for their schedule by clicking on the “Sign Up” button here for the date they’d like to be tested. If more than one person from a household wants to be tested, each person much register separately. Step 2: Complete this registration form. Step 3: Print the completed registration form or have it saved in your email for access at the testing site. Tests are reserved for those
who:Have COVID-like
symptoms, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, and loss
of smell;Have been in
close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19;Are healthcare
workers or first responders;Work in high-risk
settings like long-term care facilities, correctional facilities or homeless
shelters;Are 65 years old
or older;Have underlying
health conditions;Are a member of a
vulnerable or historically marginalized population; Have attended a
mass gathering or protest; or Are a frontline
worker in a setting where social distancing is difficult.Candidates who fit the criteria for drive-thru testing should visit our website to schedule an appointment. By selecting a specific 30-minute window of time for testing, residents will avoid long lines and help the process flow smoothly for everyone. Testing is also available June 22 and 23 at Wake Tech North (Scott Northern Wake Campus at Wake Tech), located at 6600 Louisburg Road, Raleigh. Spots are filling up quickly, especially in the morning, so click here to register now.Wake County Public Health plans to offer additional testing opportunities at different locations throughout the county in the coming days and weeks. Updated information will be shared at wakegov.com/testing.In addition to Wake County testing sites, several community partners are offering tests. To find a testing site near you, click here. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-new-outbreak-of-covid-19-in-raleigh/


On June 16, 2020

Wake County Identifies New Outbreak of COVID-19 in RaleighOn June 16, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at Pruitt Health, a skilled nursing and rehabilitation center in Raleigh.Our Public Health team has received test results showing positive cases of the virus in staff at the facility, located at 2420 Lake Wheeler Road. No additional information about residents or employees within the facility will be disclosed.“The more quickly we can identify cases at congregate care sites, the more quickly we can slow the spread of COVID-19,” said Chris Kippes, Wake County Public Health Division director. “We are working closely with Pruitt Health on measures they can take to ensure the health and safety of their residents and staff.”The N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or
more people – residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in
addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities
follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times;Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/3





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-to-offer-drive-thru-covid-19-testing-in-cary-and-raleigh/


On June 16, 2020

Wake County to Offer Drive-Thru COVID-19 Testing in Cary and RaleighOn June 16, 2020Wake County Public Health has secured two additional locations for testing of residents at risk of COVID-19. On June 18, 19 and 20, testing will be available at Cary High School, located at 638 Walnut St., Cary; andOn June 22 and 23, testing will be available at Wake Tech North (Scott Northern Wake Campus at Wake Tech), located at 6600 Louisburg Road, Raleigh.Testing at both sites will run from 10 a.m.
until 3 p.m. on each day specified. While tests are free, people must follow a
three-step process to claim their spots.Step 1: Select the time slot that works best for their schedule by clicking on the “Sign Up” button here for the date they’d like to be      tested. If more than one person from a household wants to be tested, each person much register separately.Step 2: Complete this registration form.Step 3: Print the completed registration form or  have it saved in your email for access at the testing site. Tests are reserved for those who:Have COVID-like symptoms, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, and loss of smell;Have been in close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19;Are healthcare workers or first responders;Work in high-risk settings like long-term care facilities, correctional facilities or homeless shelters;Are 65 years old or older;Have underlying health conditions;Are a member of a vulnerable or historically marginalized population; Have attended a mass gathering or protest; or Are a frontline worker in a setting where social distancing is difficult.Candidates who fit the criteria for drive-thru testing should visit our website to schedule an appointment. By selecting a specific 30-minute window of time for testing, residents will avoid long lines and help the process flow smoothly for everyone. Wake County Public Health plans to offer additional testing opportunities at different locations throughout the county in the coming days and weeks. Updated information will be shared at wakegov.com/testing.In addition to Wake County testing sites, several community partners are offering tests. To find a testing site near you, click here. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our multilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreak-at-long-term-care-facility/


On June 14, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreak at Long-Term Care FacilityOn June 14, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at Windsor Point, a long-term care facility in Fuquay-Varina. Our Public Health team has received test results showing several residents are positive for the virus. No additional information about residents or employees within the facility will be disclosed. “Because of the virus’ ability to spread
quickly, people in co-living environments are at an increased risk of
contracting COVID-19,” said Wake County EMS Director/Medical Director Dr. Jose
Cabanas who is leading the Public Health branch in the Emergency Operations
Center today. “We are talking with the facility’s medical staff to answer their
questions and provide guidance to protect their residents and staff.”The N.C. Department of Health and Human
Services defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or more people
– residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that the facility follow
its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Prohibiting visitors from entering;Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-to-offer-drive-thru-covid-19-testing-in-zebulon/


On June 11, 2020

Wake County to Offer Drive-Thru COVID-19 Testing in ZebulonOn June 11, 2020Wake County Public Health will hold drive-thru COVID-19 testing for at-risk groups at Zebulon Magnet Middle School on Monday, June 15, and Tuesday, June 16. The school is located at 1000 Shepard School Road, Zebulon.The testing, which will run from 10 a.m. to 3
p.m., is free, but people must follow a three-step process to claim their spot.Step 1: Select the time slot and date that works best for your schedule.Step 2: Complete this registration form.Step 3: Print the completed registration form or save it in your email for easy access at the testing site. Tests are reserved for those who:Have COVID-like symptoms, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, and loss of smell;Have been in close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19;Are healthcare workers or first responders;Work in high-risk settings like long-term care facilities, correctional facilities or homeless shelters;Are 65 years old or older;Have underlying health conditions;Are a member of a vulnerable or historically marginalized population; Are a frontline worker in a setting where social distancing is difficult; orHave attended protests, rallies or other mass gatherings.Candidates who fit the criteria for drive-thru testing should visit our website to schedule an appointment. By selecting a specific 30-minute window of time for testing, residents will avoid long lines and help the process flow smoothly for everyone.Testing is also available Friday and Saturday at Hephzibah Baptist Church in Wendell. Spots are filling up quickly, especially in the mornings, so click here to register now.Wake County Public Health plans to offer additional testing opportunities at different locations throughout the county in the coming days and weeks. Updated information will be shared at wakegov.com/testing.In addition to Wake County testing sites, several community partners are offering tests. To find a testing site near you, click here. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-libraries-launch-books-on-the-go-service/


On June 10, 2020

Wake Libraries Launch “Books on the Go” ServiceOn June 10, 2020If you’ve read all the books on your shelf during quarantine (twice?!), you’re in luck. Wake County Public Libraries will launch its new, contact-free Books on the Go program Monday, June 15.The Books on the Go service will provide Wake County Public Libraries the opportunity to get the books customers want into their hands.  “We so appreciate the community’s patience
while their libraries have been closed, and we look forward to giving everyone
access to the books they want to read,” said Ann Burlingame, deputy director of
Wake County Public Libraries. “This is the first phase of making libraries
accessible to our customers again, and this service will allow us to continue
fulfilling our library mission to instill the love of reading in the residents
of Wake County.”The Books on the Go service will begin on Monday, June 15, at the following libraries:Cameron Village Regional LibraryCary Regional LibraryEast Regional LibraryMiddle Creek Community LibraryNorth Regional LibraryNortheast Regional LibrarySoutheast Regional LibraryWest Regional LibraryBooks on the Go services include: Books placed on reserve prior to library’s closure: Customers who placed reserves on books before the library closed will be contacted by the library with instructions on how and where to pick up their books. Reserve system: WCPL’s online catalog will be open for customers to place reserves on their favorite books. Since the library is closed to the public, customers will also be able to place reserves on Lucky Day titles. Book return: Participating libraries will also accept returns. We encourage customers to return books they checked out before the library closed to the public. Remember, WCPL is late-fee free, and that means no overdue fees are charged.To pick up your reserve books, you will receive an email notification from the library with instructions on making an appointment between the hours of 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. “We know residents are eager to see all WCPL
locations open back up. The Books on the Go service is the next step in moving
toward that goal in the safest way possible for staff and customers,”
Burlingame said. “We thank the community for their patience—and for supporting
books, reading and their public library.”Updates to library services will be posted at bit.ly/WCPLPrep and communicated via social media. About WCPL Remote ResourcesWhile the libraries are closed, Wake County Public Libraries offers an array of library resources you can access from home. Register online for a library card, download the WCPL app and then browse a robust collection of audiobooks, e-books, video-on-demand and more. New virtual storytimes are being added every week. These features are available here. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-libraries-summer-reading-program-goes-virtual/


On June 9, 2020

Wake Libraries’ Summer Reading Program Goes VirtualOn June 9, 2020Wake County Public Libraries’ popular Summer Reading Program might look a little different in 2020, but it promises the same mix of entertainment and education that participants have come to expect and enjoy. Summer
@ the (Virtual) Library kicks off Sunday, June 14, and runs through Saturday,
Aug. 15.“We
know that COVID-19 has impacted everyone and changed how we go about our daily
lives,” said Ann Burlingame, deputy director of Wake County Public Libraries.
“While we continue to work on our plan to reopen the libraries to the public,
we’re excited to offer some fun, new, virtual ways for residents to interact
with our librarians and staff over the summer.”  Activities
for kids and adults include: BookPoints. Tracking your reading progress has never been easier. This mobile-friendly interface allows you to log time you’ve spent reading or participating in virtual summer library activities. You’ll earn points and badges and get entered into weekly and end-of-summer prize drawings.Super Specials. Enjoy online performances by magicians, scientists and origami artists. K-5 Adventures. Librarians will host online events for kindergarteners through fifth graders to Create, Explore, Discover and      Read. Adult Virtual Programs. Take part in activities like a “Write It” series and programs featuring local authors, as well as performances from local musicians including Andrew Kasab.Middle Earth Walk. Participate in a Tolkien-inspired walking challenge. Can you make it the 100 miles to Mordor? Complete the challenge and you’ll be entered to win prizes at the end of summer.Teen Escape Rooms. From Rick Riordan to zombies, these themed rooms will test your puzzle-solving skills. Teen Writing Contest. Students in grades six through 10 are invited to show off their fiction-writing abilities. Custom Book Lists. Kids and teens can now enjoy the custom book lists opportunities that adults have come to know and love. Make sure to check out our website and social media throughout the summer. More information about the Summer Reading Program can be found at https://guides.wakegov.com/summer2020 starting June 14.About WCPL Remote ServicesWhile the libraries are closed, Wake County Public Libraries offers an array of library resources you can access from home. Register online for a library card, download the WCPL app and then browse a robust collection of audiobooks, e-books, video-on-demand and more. New virtual storytimes are being added every week. These features are available here. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/future-ems-leaders-find-invaluable-lessons-in-wake-county-emergency-operations-center/


On June 9, 2020

Future EMS Leaders Find Invaluable Lessons in Wake County Emergency Operations CenterOn June 9, 2020This spring’s sudden outbreak of COVID-19 has
upended lives. Gatherings have been canceled, weddings postponed, businesses
shuttered, families separated and, tragically, lives have been lost.Yet, for some, this time of trial is an
opportunity to grow and learn.During the pandemic, the Wake County Emergency
Operations Center is helping forge two future leaders of emergency medicine.
The young doctors were wrapping up EMS fellowships at the UNC-Chapel Hill
School of Medicine when the crisis hit, and since then, Dr. Johannah Merrill
and Dr. Mariecely Luciano-Feijoo have served in equal measure alongside Wake
County’s full-time emergency medicine staff in the EOC – learning firsthand
more they ever could about public health response from a text book.“This is a horrible thing to have happened, but
I’m glad it happened at this point in my training and not next year, when I
wouldn’t have had the experience that I have now,” said Dr. Johannah Merrill,
who will move to Massachusetts next month to become an EMS medical director.For Dr. Mariecely Luciano-Feijoo, who was born
and raised in San Juan, Puerto Rico, the eventual goal is to take what she’s
learned stateside back home to improve her island’s EMS system.“I could not have asked for better teaching
than to be actively learning like this,” Dr. Luciano-Feijoo said. “It is easy
to read and try to understand certain things, but they’re not easy to apply
unless you’ve lived through them.”A Passion for Emergency MedicineIt takes a certain personality to thrive in EMS.Where most grow flustered when a day’s plans go
awry, these women thrive on the chaos of a day spent running from crisis to
crisis. Sit them down for an interview, and they exude that powerful, calm
sense of energy that comes with competence, and they look ready to leap into
action at any moment.Dr. Merrill, who graduated in
2016 from the University of Virginia School of Medicine in her hometown of
Charlottesville, said the fast-paced, ever-changing nature of EMS work drew her
to the field. In 2019, she completed a residency in emergency medicine at the
University of Rochester Medical Center in New York. Aside from the thrill of the job, Dr. Merrill
said she appreciates being the first physician to see a patient after an
emergency.“Some of a patient’s most critical moments
occur in the pre-hospital environment,” she said. “That’s when we have a really
big ability to make a difference.”For
Dr. Luciano-Feijoo, COVID-19 is the second disaster to have shaped her career.
She completed medical school in 2016 at the University of Puerto Rico and, the
following year, Hurricane Maria hit during her residency in emergency medicine
at a local hospital. In the days and weeks that followed, Dr. Luciano-Feijoo
found her home’s emergency medical infrastructure to be underfunded and out of
date. “Our EMS system has a lot of limitations, and
that did not help the Puerto Rican population in that kind of disaster,” she
said. “That brought me to the states to get a better sense of a proper EMS
system, and a better understanding of how I could bring that knowledge back to
Puerto Rico.”The program at UNC-Chapel Hill caught her eye,
because fellows split their time between Wake County and neighboring Orange
County. Working with Wake County has allowed her to see what’s possible in a
large EMS system, Dr. Luciano-Feijoo said, and Orange County, which has about
1/7th of Wake’s population, has taught her how to operate on a scale closer to
what she’ll see back in Puerto Rico. Although she didn’t set out for a career in EMS, Dr.
Luciano-Feijoo has a heritage of running toward disasters. Her mother, Celia
Feijoo-Nieves, was one of the first two women to become firefighters in Puerto
Rico in 1989. It was later that year, during a routine physical following her
first big fire, an examiner told her she was pregnant.“So I’ve been going into emergencies since
before I was born,” Dr. Luciano-Feijoo joked. “And throughout my childhood, I
sometimes went with my mother to emergencies on the fire truck when she was
able to take me.”Responsibilities in the EOCThe fellows will tell you they’re learning a lot in the EOC, and most of that comes as a byproduct of hard work. Each takes turns rotating into the role of EMS medical director, which is a position with defined duties in the EOC command structure.The days vary widely – just how the doctors
like it – although their time is spent planning and directing others rather
than rendering aid. Wake County activated its EOC in response to COVID-19 on
March 5 and, as the county moved to combat a never-before-seen virus, the fellows
helped create new workflows and protocols for public health and EMS staff.These days, Drs. Luciano-Feijoo and Merrill are
working closely with facilities that have reported outbreaks, making sure
there’s follow-up on positive tests results and coordinating strike teams,
along with any other tasks that arise throughout the day.The EOC brings together staff from across
disciplines to coordinate quick and decisive action. While Dr. Merrill has
years of experience in EMS, she said her time in the EOC has helped her see how
various departments fit together into the bigger picture of emergency
management. “The thing that’s been the most beneficial has
been learning how to coordinate between a bunch of different services, such as
fire and law enforcement,” she said. “They all have different priorities,
because they have different things to worry about, and it’s been beneficial to
see how that all fits together.”In addition to their long hours in the Wake
County EOC, each doctor works shifts as attending physicians in the emergency
department at UNC Hospitals in Chapel Hill and Hillsborough, and they provide
telemedicine for troopers at the N.C. State Highway Patrol.Next Steps for the DoctorsAt the end of the month, Drs. Merrill and Luciano-Feijoo will complete their yearlong fellowships and begin the next chapter of their careers.Dr. Merrill will head up to Lawrence, Mass., a
city of about 80,000 near the border with New Hampshire, where she’s slated to
become the next EMS medical director at Lawrence General Hospital. She will
have a few months as an attending physician to work alongside the current
director before taking over.While she’s eager to get home to friends,
family and tropical weather, Dr. Luciano-Feijoo will join the faculty at
UNC-Chapel Hill and spend another year working as an attending physician in the
university’s hospitals. She plans to keep soaking up the best practices of how
EMS operates in the states, and then she’ll work to understand how things can
change back home.“I am not well-versed on the pre-hospital
system in Puerto Rico yet,” she said. “That’s one of my next projects.”Staying Updated on COVID-19Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/drive-thru-covid-19-testing-june-11-13-in-wendell-for-at-risk-residents/


On June 6, 2020

Drive-Thru COVID-19 Testing June 11 – 13 in Wendell for At-Risk ResidentsOn June 6, 2020While a few reservations for
COVID-19 testing remain available at Southern Regional Center in Fuquay-Varina,
Wake County Public Health has secured the location for its next round of testing.
From June 11 to June 13, public health staff will be testing at-risk residents
for COVID-19 at Hephzibah Baptist Church, located at 1794 Wendell Blvd., Wendell.The testing, which will run
from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m., is free, but people must follow a three-step process
to claim their spot.Step 1: Select the time slot that works
best for their schedule by clicking on the “Sign Up” button here for the date they’d like
to be tested.Step 2: Complete this registration
form.Step 3: Print the completed registration
form or have it saved in your email for access at the testing site. Tests are reserved for those
who:Have COVID-like
symptoms, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, and loss
of smell;Have been in
close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19;Are healthcare
workers or first responders;Work in high-risk
settings like long-term care facilities, correctional facilities or homeless
shelters;Are 65 years old
or older;Have underlying
health conditions;Are a member of a
vulnerable or historically marginalized population; or Are a frontline
worker in a setting where social distancing is difficult.“We know that more testing is
vital in helping us better understand this virus and how it spreads,” said Dr.
Kim McDonald, Wake County medical director. “We are committed to bringing
drive-thru testing to all parts of our community, so we can make sure that our at-risk
residents have easy access to this free service.”   Candidates who fit the
criteria for drive-thru testing should visit our website to schedule an appointment. By selecting a specific
30-minute window of time for testing, residents will avoid long lines and help
the process flow smoothly for everyone. If multiple people are coming in a
single vehicle, be sure that each one registers.Wake County Public Health plans
to offer additional testing opportunities at different locations throughout the
county in the coming days and weeks. Updated information will be shared at covid19.wakegov.com/testing.In addition to Wake County
testing sites, several community partners are offering tests. To find a testing
site near you, click here. Staying Updated
Wake County has
made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of
frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email
address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19.

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-adds-drive-thru-covid-19-testing-slots-dates/


On June 3, 2020

Wake County Adds Drive-Thru COVID-19 Testing Slots, DatesOn June 3, 2020Due to demand and an ability to respond to that demand, Wake County Public Health has added several testing slots and dates to its COVID-19 testing efforts for at-risk groups.On Thursday, June 4, and Friday, June 5, testing has been expanded to accommodate up to 250 people per day at the Wake County Commons Building, located at 4011 Carya Drive, Raleigh. The testing, which will run from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m., is free, but people must follow a three-step process to claim their spot.Step 1: Select the time slot that works best for      their schedule by clicking on the “Sign Up” button here for the date they’d like to be      tested.Step 2: Complete this registration form.Step 3: Print the completed registration form or have it saved in an email for access at the testing site. Tests are reserved for those who:Have COVID-like symptoms, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, and loss of smell;Have been in close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19;Are healthcare workers or first responders;Work in high-risk settings like long-term care facilities, correctional facilities or homeless shelters;Are 65 years old or older;Have underlying health conditions;Are a member of a vulnerable or historically marginalized population; or Are a frontline worker in a setting where social distancing is difficult.Testing began at the Wake County Commons
Building on Monday. As of Wednesday morning, Wake County staff have tested 455
people.“Drive-thru testing provides a great opportunity to offer testing to people who may not have access elsewhere,” said Chris Kippes, Wake County Public Health Division director. “It’s a streamlined process—we can move a lot of people through quickly and maintain a safe environment for our workers and patients.”Candidates who fit the criteria for drive-thru testing should visit our website to schedule an appointment. By selecting a specific 30-minute window of time for testing, residents will avoid long lines and help the process flow smoothly for everyone.The last day for testing at the Wake County
Commons Building will be Friday, June 5.On Sunday, June 7, the Wake County Public Health team will resume testing at its second testing site at the Southern Regional Center, located at 271 Bramblehill Drive in Fuquay-Varina. Testing here will also be free, but will also require people to follow the same three-step sign-up process mentioned above. Wake County Public Health plans to offer additional testing opportunities at different locations throughout the county at least through June. Updated information will be shared at covid19.wakegov.com/testing.In addition to Wake County testing sites, several community partners are offering tests. To find a testing site near you, click here.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-new-outbreak-of-covid-19-in-cary/


On June 1, 2020

Wake County Identifies New Outbreak of COVID-19 in CaryOn June 1, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at HeartFields at Cary, an assisted living and memory care facility in Cary. Our Public Health team has received test
results showing positive cases of the virus in residents at the facility,
located at 1050 Crescent Green. No additional information about residents or
employees within the facility will be disclosed. “We’re not surprised by the outbreaks in our
community’s congregate living facilities, given the nature of this virus,” said
Dr. Jose Cabanas, who is overseeing the Wake County Emergency Operations
Center’s public health branch today. “HeartFields acted proactively by having
its staff and residents tested so that early intervention protocols could be
enacted in order to protect all of their residents and staff. It’s a smart
decision given COVID-19’s ability to spread quickly throughout congregate
living facilities.”The N.C. Department of Health and Human
Services defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or more people
– residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in addition to
adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities follow
its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-to-begin-drive-thru-covid-19-testing-for-at-risk-groups/


On May 30, 2020

Wake County to Begin Drive-Thru COVID-19 Testing for At-Risk GroupsOn May 30, 2020On Monday, June 1, Wake County Public Health will begin drive-thru COVID-19 testing for at-risk groups at the Wake County Commons Building parking lot. The testing, which will run from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m. daily through Thursday, June 4, is free, but people must sign up for a timeslot and register to participate.Tests are reserved for those who:Have COVID-like
symptoms, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, and loss
of smell;Have been in
close contact with a known positive case of COVID-19;Are healthcare
workers or first responders;Work in high-risk
settings like long-term care facilities, correctional facilities or homeless
shelters;Are 65 years old
or older;Have underlying
health conditions;Are a member of a
vulnerable or historically marginalized population; or Are a frontline
worker in a setting where social distancing is difficult.“Testing residents in our community is vital to understanding how the virus is spreading, so we can continue responding appropriately,” said Chris Kippes, Wake County Public Health Division director. “Our focus on at-risk and frontline workers will help fill the gap for populations who may not have access to testing elsewhere or who have a higher chance of becoming infected.”Candidates who fit the criteria for drive-thru testing should visit our website to schedule an appointment. By selecting a specific 30-minute window of time for testing, residents will avoid long lines and help the process flow smoothly for everyone.Wake County Public Health plans to offer additional testing opportunities at different locations throughout the county in the coming days and weeks. Updated information will be shared at https://covid19.wakegov.com/testing/.In addition to Wake County testing sites, several community partners are offering tests. To find a testing site near you, click here. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/4





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-new-outbreak-of-covid-19-in-apex/


On May 28, 2020

Wake County Identifies New Outbreak of COVID-19 in ApexOn May 28, 2020Wake County has confirmed an outbreak of COVID-19 at Brookridge Assisted Living, a long-term care facility located in Apex. Our Public Health team has received test
results showing positive cases of the virus in residents at Brookridge, located
at 312 Lynch Street. No additional information about residents or employees
within the facility will be disclosed. “We continue to see that COVID-19 can spread
quickly in places where people live in close quarters,” said Dr. Jose Cabanas,
who is overseeing the Wake County
Emergency Operations Center’s public health branch today. “We’re working
closely with Brookridge to test residents, as well as staff, and we’re
providing guidance to help keep their people safe.”The N.C. Department of Health and Human
Services defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or more people
– residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that, in addition to
adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, facilities follow
its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting employees from working at other locations;Practicing social distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/application-period-opens-for-wake-forward-small-business-relief-program/


On May 20, 2020

Application Period Opens for ‘Wake Forward’ Small Business Relief ProgramOn May 20, 2020Small businesses and independent contractors in Wake County that have lost revenue due to COVID-19 can now apply for loans to help plan for the future. The application period for Wake Forward officially opened at noon today. People who are interested can visit the Wake Forward website for information on how to apply.“Local businesses and their employees have been
hit hard by the effects of COVID-19, and the goal of this program is to help
them find a way forward,” Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford
said. “During this time of uncertainty, Wake Forward provides immediate support
for our small businesses and proprietors – as well as hope and stability for
our entire community.”  Wake Forward will provide loans
of up to $50,000 to small businesses that are located in Wake County and have
up to 100 full-time employees. Of the $5 million in available funds, $4 million
is earmarked for small businesses, and at least $1 million will support
independent contractors and sole proprietors.  Small business owners who receive loans through
the program will make no payments for six months. They will then be responsible
for paying the principal, along with interest payments at 5.5%, for the
following 48 months. There is no penalty for paying loans back early.Wake County Economic Development has created a
business coalition to spread the word about the available loans. “The announcement of the Wake Forward small business program
reinforces that county leadership is dedicated to helping support the small
business community,” said Danya Perry, director of equitable economic
development, Wake County Economic Development, and director of diversity,
equity, and inclusivity for the Raleigh Chamber. “Small businesses and sole
proprietors are an important part of our ecosystem and provide goods and
services that keep our community functioning. Providing support to these
business owners, especially the historically underrepresented, is a big
step in moving forward.” The N.C. Rural Economic Development Center will administer Wake Forward as part of the N.C. COVID-19 Rapid Recovery Loans program, and the same terms will apply. Funding for Wake Forward comes from the federal
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), which provided
$194 million to support Wake County’s response to COVID-19.For a full list of criteria to qualify, visit wakegov.com/wakeforward or email NCRapidRecovery@threadcap.org.  Staying Updated on COVID-19Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-forward-relief-program-provides-5-million-to-support-small-businesses-affected-by-covid-19/


On May 19, 2020

‘Wake Forward’ Relief Program Provides $5 Million to Support Small Businesses Affected by COVID-19On May 19, 2020The Wake County Board of Commissioners voted today to allocate $5 million in federal funds to create a relief program for local small businesses who have lost revenue due to COVID-19.Called Wake Forward, the program will provide loans of up to $50,000 to small businesses that are located in Wake County and have up to 100 employees. Of the $5 million in available funds, $4 million is earmarked for small businesses, and at least $1 million will support independent contractors and sole proprietors.“As our community has banded
together to slow the spread of COVID-19, some of the biggest sacrifices have come
from our local businesses,” Board Chairman Greg Ford said. “We’re all looking
forward to getting back to business as usual, and Wake Forward will help
companies keep the lights on until that day comes.” The N.C. Rural Economic Development Center will administer Wake Forward as part of the N.C. COVID-19 Rapid Recovery Loans program, and the same terms will apply. The center will begin accepting loan applications on Wednesday, May 20, at noon. Small business owners should visit the Wake Forward website to apply.Funding for Wake Forward
comes from the federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act
(CARES Act), which provided $194 million to support Wake County’s response to
COVID-19.Small business owners who
receive loans through the program will make no payments for six months. They
will then be responsible for paying the principal, along with interest payments
at 5.5%, for the following 48 months. There is no penalty for paying loans back
early.“So many of our small
businesses are hurting, and we’re taking quick action to provide relief,”
Commissioner Matt Calabria said. “Our local shops, restaurants and service
providers are part of what makes Wake County great. By supporting them, we’re
investing in our quality of life as well as our economy.”For a full list of criteria to qualify, visit wakegov.com/wakeforward or email NCRapidRecovery@threadcap.org.Staying Updated on COVID-19Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.  


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-board-allocates-cares-act-funds-to-cover-county-covid-19-response/


On May 18, 2020

Wake Board Allocates CARES Act Funds to Cover County COVID-19 ResponseOn May 18, 2020The Wake County Board of Commissioners voted today to allocate $62.7 million in federal funds to cover the county’s COVID-19 response through June 30, the end of Fiscal Year 2020.“Wake County is facing many
of the same challenges that communities across the nation and around the globe
are facing as a result of COVID-19,” Board Chairman Greg Ford said. “We are
grateful to see these funds come back to our local taxpayers from the federal
government, and we have a plans in place to use these resources to support our
residents moving forward.”Wake County has received $194
million under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. The
funds allocated today will cover direct expenses incurred in response to
COVID-19, including wages, supplies and equipment, communications and outreach
costs, emergency housing for the homeless, and increases to public health and
safety.Much of the money will flow
into the Wake County Emergency Operations Center, which has been activated for
76 days. As of May 14, Wake County has spent $13.1 million in response to
COVID-19.The current allocation includes money to address second-order effects of coronavirus through the House Wake! strategic housing plan. In addition, the board will hold a public hearing and consider using $5 million in CARES Act funds to create a relief program for small businesses negatively impacted by COVID-19. As the COVID-19 crisis escalated,
the commissioners dipped into the county’s savings to fund the unexpected costs
of combating the virus. The board appropriated $2 million of fund balance on
March 16 and another $8.8 million on March 26. The CARES Act funds allow the
county to put that money back into savings.By June 30, when the current
fiscal year ends, Wake County expects to have spent a total of $62.7 million on
its response to COVID-19. By Dec. 31, the estimate is $155.2 million.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-additional-outbreaks-of-covid-19/


On May 12, 2020

Wake County Identifies Additional Outbreaks of COVID-19On May 12, 2020Wake County has confirmed outbreaks
of COVID-19 at two long-term care facilities operated by Brookdale Senior
Living. Our Public Health team has received
test results showing positive cases of the virus – affecting both residents and
staff – at Brookdale North Raleigh and Brookdale Wake Forest. No additional
information about residents or employees within the facility will be disclosed.
“Rapidly identifying cases
among residents and staff at congregate care outbreak sites is key to limiting
the spread of COVID-19,” said Dr. Jeff Williams, who is overseeing the Wake
County Emergency Operations Center’s public health branch today. “We’re working
closely with the centers to conduct additional testing and provide guidance to
prevent the further spread of the virus.” Wake County Public Health
defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or more people –
residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that in
addition to adhering to the state’s order preventing outside visitation, the
facilities follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff
wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Restricting
employees from working at other locations;Practicing social
distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning
surfaces with disinfectant.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of
frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email
address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related
questions about COVID-19.

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-adds-more-food-distribution-sites-for-students-and-families/


On May 12, 2020

Wake County Adds More Food Distribution Sites for Students and FamiliesOn May 12, 2020More than 900,000 meals and 10,000 emergency food boxes
have been distributed to children and families across Wake County since March
16, thanks to staff at Wake County Public Schools and volunteers at community food
distribution sites. To help expand food distribution to even more residents, WCPSS
has opened an additional six school distribution sites and four new bus routes
to deliver food to specific neighborhoods. They bring our total number of distribution sites to 138. These new locations help fill gaps in communities where access to healthy meals can be a challenge. The Inter-Faith Food Shuttle will also travel throughout the county with help from the National Guard to increase distribution efforts in the coming weeks.“This is a stunning show of collaboration between our
partners and volunteers,” said Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg
Ford. “I’m so proud that, together, we’re finding ways to share healthy meals
at no cost to children and families who might otherwise go hungry during this
difficult time.”Wake County’s partners in the food program include:Wake County Public School System NC Cooperative Extension Inter-Faith Food Shuttle Food Bank of Central & Eastern NC Western Region Food Security Action Team North Regional Community Food Security Team Dream Center Overflowing HandsRocky Top Catering  Bridging the Gap Temple’s Table Town of Rolesville “We are so grateful for our dedicated child nutrition
staff and bus drivers who have stepped up from day one to ensure our children
have healthy food,” said Wake County Board of Education Chair Keith Sutton. “We
know many people are experiencing increased anxiety during this pandemic, and
we hope we can help relieve some of the stress associated with providing basic
needs, like food. In addition, we know that children are less able to focus on
learning when they are hungry. By helping to meet this basic need, we hope
students are more likely to learn and remain healthy while our school buildings
are closed.”These programs are primarily funded through the USDA’s
reimbursement funding for Wake County’s Summer Feeding program. Normally, this
program runs during the summer months and provides meals to students and
families when school is out. Due to COVID-19, the partners have decided to launch
distribution earlier than ever before. “For many kids, the meals they get at school are the only
nutritious meals they eat all day,” said Katherine Williams, Wake County
Cooperative Extension director. “With COVID-19 causing schools to close, these
students needed help immediately, and we jumped into action earlier than
expected to provide them with nutritious food during this crisis.” More than 80% of children from low-income families
experience limited access to nutritious meals when out of school. In 2018, more
than 41,000 children in Wake County were food insecure. To help with additional food expenses, North Carolina has been approved for the Pandemic-EBT (P-EBT) program which aims to provide extra help for families buying groceries. Information on this program can be found by visiting the NCDHHS Human Services webpage. For an up-to-date listing of all meal sites, food pantries, mobile food markets and emergency food boxes, visit the Wake County COVID-19 website. For those who wish to help, food donations can be taken to the Inter-Faith Food Shuttle or Food Bank of Central and Eastern NC.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-announces-strategic-housing-plan-to-help-minimize-effects-of-covid-19/


On May 6, 2020

Wake County Announces Strategic Housing Plan to Help Minimize  Effects of COVID-19On May 6, 2020Wake
County is announcing the creation of House Wake!, a strategic plan to help
minimize the effects of COVID-19 on county residents who are currently homeless
or on the brink of homelessness.  This
six-to-eight-month plan earned unanimous support by the Wake County Board of
Commissioners on Monday, May 4th and is
now being implemented by the County’s Housing Affordability and Community
Revitalization Department. “This plan will provide critical
support to residents who have lost their jobs as a result of the COVID-19
crisis and can no longer afford to pay rent or their mortgage,” said Board
Chairman Greg Ford. “I want to thank Commissioner Jessica Holmes for her leadership
on this effort to keep our vulnerable residents housed and healthy.” The plan is focused in the near-term on two main areas:Stabilizing the housing situations of as many people
     teetering on the edge of homelessness as possible; and
      Housing individuals and families who are currently
     unsheltered and at a greater risk of contracting COVID-19. To
do this, Wake County will use policy tools and funding sources recently made
available to help fight the spread of COVID-19. The House Wake! plan will utilize
federal, state and local funding to move the maximum number of people possible
into stable housing situations before the end of the calendar year.  “It’s
impossible to abide by a stay-at-home order if you don’t have a home,” said
Commissioner Jessica Holmes. “This plan enables us to do what’s right for the
public health and our local economy at the same time.”  Since
March 15, North Carolina has received more than 900,000 unemployment claims.
The high rate of unemployment across the state is a warning of the coming wave
of evictions and foreclosures. The first step in the House Wake! plan is to
address this anticipated need.  The
programs proposed in the plan will focus on addressing the first wave of
housing insecurity. Wake County will develop additional housing programs and
policies for future waves by working closely with community partners.  “There
is an opportunity in this catastrophe,” said Lorena McDowell, Wake County
Housing Affordability and Community Revitalization director. “By being smart,
bold and brave, we can address the gaps that already existed in our system and
help those who have been impacted by COVID-19’s strain on our community.” 
 House
Wake! consists of seven major components: Healthy Hotels Initiative Homelessness Prevention Expansion Rapid Rehousing Permanent Placement Program Housing Navigation and Landlord Engagement Program Oak City Cares Hygiene Program Housing Services Enhancement Program Shelter and Street Outreach Enhancement Program  Wake
County worked hard to ensure community input was considered in the development
of this plan. The county engaged in many individual and group conversations
with housing service providers, community advocates and faith leaders. The
public submitted more than 750 comments in support of this plan – the highest
number of public comments received during a board meeting.  The
county will continue engaging with the community as the project continues. More information on this plan can be found here. ###


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-covid-19-outbreak-at-long-term-care-facility-in-apex/


On May 4, 2020

Wake County Identifies COVID-19 Outbreak at Long-Term Care Facility in ApexOn May 4, 2020The Wake County Public Health
Division has confirmed the fourth outbreak of COVID-19 at a long-term care
facility. Multiple people – including
employees and residents – at UNC REX Rehabilitation and Nursing Care Center of
Apex have tested positive for the virus. No information about residents or
employees within the facility will be disclosed.“As we’ve seen with previous
outbreaks, the coronavirus can spread quickly through communities where people
live near each other in relatively close quarters,” said Dr. Jeff Williams, who
oversaw the Wake County Emergency Operations Center’s public health branch
today. “We’re working closely with this facility to minimize the number of
people exposed to the virus.”Wake County Public Health
defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or more people – residents
or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends the
facility follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff
wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times;Prohibiting
visitors from entering its facility;Restricting
employees from working at other locations;Practicing social
distancing when possible; andFrequently
cleaning surfaces with disinfectant.The Public Health team has
also advised the center to follow safety procedures established by EMS and
local fire departments when calling for emergency assistance. Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of
frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email
address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related
questions about COVID-19.

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-board-allocates-cares-act-funding-for-small-businesses-affordable-housing/


On May 4, 2020

Wake Board Allocates CARES Act Funding for Small Businesses, Affordable HousingOn May 4, 2020The Wake County Board of Commissioners took
steps today to allocate millions of dollars of federal funds to support small
businesses and people at-risk of or currently experiencing homelessness.“We’re not wasting any time investing this
money back into the community,” Board Chairman Greg Ford said. “I’d like to
highlight Commissioner Matt Calabria for his attention to supporting small
businesses and Commissioner Jessica Holmes for her continued leadership on
affordable housing.”Under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic
Security Act (CARES Act), Wake County has received about $194 million to help
fund its response to COVID-19. The county will use the funds primarily to
support the direct costs of public health and safety efforts to curb the spread
of the virus.The act also allows the county to use the
funding to relieve “second-order effects” of COVID-19, which include economic
support to those suffering from employment and business disruption. The board directed staff to find a partner to help administer a loan program to support local small businesses who have lost revenue due to COVID-19.Under the current plan, Wake County would make
$4 million available for loans to local small businesses and $1 million for
independent contractors and sole proprietors, including barbers and hair
stylists.“Coronavirus has taken its toll on our small
businesses, and many of them are struggling to make ends meet,” Commissioner
Matt Calabria said. “That’s why we’re working to provide them with the support
they need to stay afloat as we weather this crisis together.”To qualify for loans, businesses will need to
be located in Wake County and locally and independently owned. That includes
organizations inside city and town limits. Businesses cannot be in bankruptcy
or have open tax liens or judgments. Companies do not have to be closed due to
COVID-19, but they must be able to prove a loss of revenue.To get the program up and running as soon as
possible, staff will look to partner with an agency that has experience
administering loans to small businesses. The board plans to hold a public
hearing and vote on the proposed program by May 18. The board also took a first look at the Housing Affordability and Community Revitalization Department’s new strategic plan to coordinate federal, state and local efforts to address the impacts of COVID-19 on residents at-risk of or currently experiencing homelessness.The CARES Act directly provided $2 million to
the housing department, and staff plans to ask the board for additional
resources from the $194 million allocated to Wake County through the CARES Act.“We already had an affordable housing crisis in
Wake County, and with COVID-19 costing thousands of residents their jobs, the
risk of homelessness is greater than ever,” Commissioner Jessica Holmes said.
“These families need support now, which is why we’re moving quickly to expand
programs to make sure everyone has a safe place to sleep at night.”Called House Wake, the plan aims to move as
many people as possible into stable housing. Over the next six to eight months,
it would augment seven key housing programs:The Healthy Hotels Initiative, which is providing temporary housing for homeless people at high risk of COVID-19;        Wake Prevent!, which would nearly double its capacity to support people struggling to make rent payments;       The Rapid Rehousing Permanent Placement Program, which will offer grants to developers to provide affordable housing by quickly rehabilitating existing units that      are currently uninhabitable;       The Housing Navigation & Landlord Engagement Program, which works with landlords who have vacant units to place people into affordable housing;       The Oak City Cares Hygiene Program, which would allow the shelter to provide outdoor      facilities for showering and laundry that can be sanitized to meet CDC standards to prevent the spread of COVID-19;       The Housing Services Enhancement Program, which will provide flexible funding to cover gaps in other programs by providing necessities such as food, transportation and      personal hygiene and household products; and       The Shelter & Street Outreach Enhancement Program, which will upgrade shelters to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and boost outreach efforts to identify unsheltered      residents who are at high risk of coronavirus.The Housing Affordability and Community Revitalization Department is also looking into funds available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.  


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-wcpss-partner-on-effort-to-sterilize-n95-masks-for-frontline-workers/


On May 4, 2020

Wake County, WCPSS Partner on Effort to Sterilize N95 Masks for Frontline WorkersOn May 4, 2020Wake County and Wake County Public Schools are working together to implement a plan to reuse N95 masks – an important piece of personal protective equipment that is in limited supply for healthcare workers and first responders on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic.With schools closed, middle and high school
science labs are vacant, and the cabinets teachers and students typically use
to sterilize safety goggles with ultraviolet light are available to help with
the coronavirus response. WCPSS is lending the cabinets from 42
classrooms to Wake County. The county will use the cabinets to disinfect
existing N95 masks, so staff can reuse them.“This team effort is vital to helping ensure
our first responders and healthcare workers have enough N95 masks to protect
them from contracting COVID-19,” said Wake County Board of Commissioners
Chairman Greg Ford. “Because of the national shortage of PPE, new masks can be
hard to come by. We’re grateful to the school system for lending us these UV
cabinets, so we can extend the longevity of our important and scarce resources.”
WCPSS crews have removed 42 sanitizing cabinets
from school science labs. Wake County crews picked them up and installed them
at various locations throughout the county last week. The sites include:34 units at Wake County EMS facilities;4 units at Raleigh Fire Department locations; and4 units at the Wake County Emergency Services Education Center.“Just as our UV cabinets make goggles safe for
reuse for our students, they have the potential to make thousands of N95 masks
safe for reuse for county staff on the frontlines of the COVID-19 response,”
said Keith Sutton, chair of the Wake County Board of Education. “When the need
to use the cabinets ends, Wake County will clean them and re-install them in
our science labs.” N95 masks get their name from their ability to
filter out 95% of particles in the air and keep the wearer from breathing them
in. Healthcare workers and first responders must be fitted for their N95 masks,
and masks cannot be shared. Using the germicidal cabinets, the masks will
be treated with ultraviolet light for 15 minutes, which has been shown to kill
more than 99% of contaminants on surfaces, including COVID-19. Because repeated treatments degrade the N95
masks, which are made of polyurethane, polypropylene and polyester, the devices
will be sanitized no more than five times. Staff will mark their masks with
their names and use tick marks to indicate how many times they have been
sterilized.Staff will discard any masks that show signs of
significant wear, such as rips, tears, stretched-out elastic, and contamination
with blood or other pollutants. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/5





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-third-covid-19-outbreak-at-long-term-care-facility/


On April 30, 2020

Wake County Identifies Third COVID-19 Outbreak at Long-Term Care FacilityOn April 30, 2020Wake County has confirmed the third outbreak of COVID-19 at a long-term care facility in the county. Our Public Health team has received test results showing positive cases of the virus at Capital Nursing and Rehabilitation Care in Raleigh. No information about residents or employees within the facility will be disclosed. “Because of the virus’
ability to spread quickly, people in co-living environments are at an increased
risk of contracting COVID-19,” said Wake County Epidemiologist Dr. Nicole
Mushonga. “We are working with the facility’s medical staff to answer their
questions about the virus and provide guidance to protect their residents and
staff.”Wake County Public Health
defines an outbreak at a long-term care facility as two or more people –
residents or employees – testing positive for the virus.The county recommends that the
facility follow its guidelines, which include:Ensuring staff
wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times; Prohibiting
visitors from entering its facility;Restricting
employees from working at other locations;Practicing social
distancing when possible; andFrequently cleaning
surfaces with disinfectant.The Public Health team has
also advised the center to follow new safety procedures established by EMS and
local fire departments when calling for emergency assistance.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-to-follow-governors-stay-at-home-order-starting-may-1/


On April 29, 2020

Wake County to Follow Governor’s Stay-at-Home Order Starting May 1On April 29, 2020Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford signed a proclamation this morning allowing the county’s Stay-at-Home order to lapse on April 30.Starting May 1, 11 of the county’s 12 municipalities
(Cary; Fuquay-Varina; Garner; Holly Springs; Knightdale; Morrisville; Raleigh;
Rolesville; Wake Forest; Wendell; and Zebulon) and portions of Angier, Clayton
and Durham located within Wake County, will follow Gov. Cooper’s Stay-at-Home
order. The Town of Apex is expected to issue its own
proclamation.“We put our order in place in late March to slow the spread of COVID-19 in Wake County, one day before the Governor issued the state-wide Stay-at-Home order,” said Chairman Ford. “Our community was affected first by the virus, making it vital that we act more swiftly. But now that there is community spread and we are all fighting to slow the spread collectively, it’s appropriate to follow the state’s order, which provides some additional flexibility to our residents.”Gov. Cooper’s order remains in
effect through May 8. It directs people to stay at home – except to visit
essential businesses, exercise outdoors or help a family member. Specifically,
the order bans gatherings of more than 10 people and directs everyone to
physically stay at least six feet apart from others.Gov. Cooper announced last week that he has a three-phase plan for lifting these restrictions. The timetable for enacting it relies firmly on the virus’ data trends. As of 12:45 p.m., Wake County currently has 796 known positive cases of COVID-19. Of those, 16 people have died from the virus.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/how-to-protect-pets-and-others-from-covid-19/


On April 28, 2020

How to Protect Pets and Others from COVID-19On April 28, 2020The Wake County Animal Center is monitoring how COVID-19 may affect pets, following the first reports of pets in the U.S. having tested positive for the new coronavirus.“This is a novel virus. Just as doctors are racing to study how it affects humans, veterinarians are evaluating its impacts for pets,” Dr. Jennifer Federico, director of the Wake County Animal Center. “We will need more information to understand if, and how, different pets and animals are affected.”Last Wednesday, the Centers for Disease Control announced the first confirmed cases of two pet cats testing positive for the virus that causes COVID-19. The cats live in separate areas of New York state.One of the cats’ owners tested positive for
COVID-19, and the other is suspected to have come into contact with a mildly
ill or asymptomatic person. Each cat had mild respiratory illness and was
expected to make a full recovery.Until we know more, the CDC recommends pet owners take the following precautions:Do not let pets interact with people or other animals outside the household.Keep cats indoors when possible to prevent them from interacting with other animals or people.Walk dogs on a leash, maintaining at least 6 feet from other people and animals.Avoid dog parks or public places where a large number of people and dogs gather.If you have symptoms or a confirmed case of
COVID-19, restrict contact with your pets and other animals, just like you
would around other people.When possible, have another member of your household care for your pets while you are sick.Avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding.If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wear a cloth face covering and wash your hands before and after you interact with them.Follow general guidelines for staying healthy around animals.Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. In
rare cases, a strain that infects animals can spread to people. The CDC does
not know its exact source, but the coronavirus that caused the current outbreak
of COVID-19 is suspected to have originated in animals and spread to people.At this time, there is no evidence that animals
play a significant role in spreading the new coronavirus, according to the CDC.
Based on the limited information available to date, the risk of animals
spreading COVID-19 to people is considered to be low.Should I Get My Pet Tested?Routine testing of domestic animals for COVID-19 is not recommended by the CDC, United States Department of Agriculture or the American Veterinary Medical Association.In North Carolina, the decision on whether
testing should begin for pets lies with the leading veterinarians at N.C. State
University and the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services. Each agency
will need to agree that animal testing is needed to protect the health of
vulnerable human or animal populations.Learning the Latest about PetsWhenever you look for any new information about COVID-19, including updates about how to protect your pets, it is vital to follow official and reliable sources.For news COVID-19 news related to animals, Wake County Animal Services recommends following the Worms & Germs Blog, an educational website coordinated by vets from the Ontario Veterinary College‘s Centre for Public Health and Zoonoses.They’re posting the latest credible news, and have compiled a page with some of their key COVID-19 resources.Staying Updated in Wake CountyWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-offers-clarity-for-faith-communities-under-stay-at-home-order/


On April 24, 2020

Wake County Offers Clarity for Faith Communities under Stay-at-Home OrderOn April 24, 2020Many faith-based organizations are preparing today for virtual or drive-in services over the weekend. With that in mind, Wake County is offering guidelines to help faith communities meet the spiritual needs of their members while observing the Stay-at-Home Order.“During this trying time, it’s just as
important to nourish our spirit as it is our bodies,” said Wake County Board of
Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford. “That’s why we’re sharing these guidelines
today to help balance the needs of faith-based organizations with our
responsibility to protect the public health.”The county’s proclamation prohibits members of
faith communities who aren’t from the same family or household from touching
others or shared objects such as communion elements, literature or offering
plates. However, there are ways they can incorporate religious objects and
practices into their services without violating the order.CommunionReligious groups that want to share the sacraments with their congregations can do so in the following ways:Invite members in advance to bring their own sacraments to the service;Place the sacraments in self-serve packages for easy pickup prior to the day of the service; and/orPut the sacraments in self-serve packages and leave them on a table for convenient drive-by pickup right before the service begins.Assembly of self-serve packages should be done
using proper food safety guidelines. Drivers must also keep six feet of distance
between their vehicles when picking up the sacraments, and the tables holding
the sacraments must be unattended.Financial GivingFaith-based organizations that want to provide an opportunity for their members to contribute financially to their cause can choose from the options below:Collect tithes and offerings via mail;Consider electronic methods for accepting contributions;Establish drop boxes where tithes and offerings may be deposited during the week; and/or Allow members to drive up to unattended tables – while maintaining six feet of distance from other vehicles – and deposit their contributions before or after a service.Literature and Other Informational HandoutsReligious groups that want to share bulletins, song sheets or other handouts with their members may use the following methods:Post literature on the organization’s website, so members can print it at home and bring it to the service;Establish distribution tables on varying dates and times throughout the week where members can pick up the materials;Email bulletins, flyers and other literature to members, so they can view them electronically during the service; and/orPlace literature on unattended tables for easy drive-by pickup on the day of the service. Drivers must practice social distancing.For any of the options involving tables,
workers should be medically screened and required to wear masks and gloves
prior to setting the tables up and restocking them. Staying Updated
Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the
latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/board-approves-funding-to-bring-hundreds-of-affordable-housing-units-to-wake-county/


On April 23, 2020

Board Approves Funding to Bring Hundreds of Affordable Housing Units to Wake CountyOn April 23, 2020The Wake County Board of Commissioners is continuing its efforts to expand affordable housing in our county. The board voted unanimously on Monday to approve $10.2 million in gap funding for six development projects in Wake County. These projects would bring 784 new affordable housing units to the area. “Housing
is a basic need for everyone,” said Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman
Greg Ford. “This was an easy decision for our board to make, and we look
forward to seeing how these projects will help our community.” The new units – spread throughout Wake County – will include a
mix of family, senior and permanent supportive housing. Nearly 300 of the proposed 784
units would serve families or individuals who earn less than 50% of the area
median income. Nearly 180 units would target permanent supportive housing. “As our county has grown, so has the cost to live here, and the
economic impacts of COVID-19 are making it even more challenging for some
residents to afford to pay rent,” said Wake County Commissioner Jessica Holmes.
“It’s critically important that we fund projects like these to give people who
are struggling a path to safe, affordable housing.” Following the approval, developers will next apply for N.C.
Housing Financing Agency tax credits with gap financing in place. Upon NCHFA
approval, they can begin working with the municipalities where their projects
are located to launch the building process. Construction must be completed
within the next two years.Each year, Wake County issues a request for proposals from
developers willing to build new housing at affordability levels the market will
not naturally create. Wake County provides gap financing through a mix of
county and federal dollars, combined with Federal Low-Income Housing Tax
Credits administered by NCHFA. “These projects are a win-win for the county, developers and our
community,” said Lorena McDowell, Wake County Affordable Housing and Community
Revitalization director. “These new units give residents on the verge of
homelessness a safe place to live, but they won’t price out existing residents,
based on their income levels.” Wake County requires an additional 10% of units be targeted to
those in need of permanent supportive housing.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/trash-and-recycling-surges-amid-covid-19-wake-county-adjusts-plans-for-earth-day/


On April 22, 2020

Trash and Recycling Surges Amid COVID-19; Wake County Adjusts Plans for Earth DayOn April 22, 2020COVID-19 has changed plans for Earth Day around the globe, and Wake County has already seen the effects of the pandemic at its waste and recycling centers across the county.Compared to average, last week, residents brought 500 tons, or 1 million pounds, more solid waste, metal and recyclables to Wake County’s 11 solid waste convenience centers.Taking a month-to-month to month view, from February to March, residents dumped 29% more trash for a total of 739 tons. Recycling grew even faster at convenience centers and Wake’s three multi-material recycling facilities:Cardboard recycling jumped 45% to 88 tons;Mixed recycling rose 20% to 253 tons;Recycling of major appliances, or white goods, leapt 50% to 155 tons;Scrap metal recycling climbed 34% to 497 tons.“As we look at these numbers on Earth Day,
we’re happy to say recycling is growing faster than trash,” Solid Waste
Director John Roberson said. “People are staying at home, getting a head start
on spring cleaning, and they’re bringing unprecedented amounts of material to
our convenience centers.”Wake County is asking residents to be patient as the increased volume, along with new requirements for social distancing and equipment cleaning, have led to delays. Some hours have been changed to improve the flow of visitors. Convenience centers, for instance, now open at noon Sundays.Garbage collection has been prioritized above construction waste. Residents are advised to bring construction waste Tuesday through Friday or consider paying to dump at a private construction landfill.Celebrating Earth Day 2020 Wake County had planned a number of events to bring residents together to celebrate Earth Day 2020, but those have been canceled in accordance with stay-at-home orders.In lieu of community gatherings, here are some
ideas for families to celebrate Earth Day together:It’s a great time to get outside and enjoy the wonders of our natural world, either alone or with close family. Take a walk in your neighborhood, or visit an open trail, and take care to notice the birds, rabbits and other wildlife that enrich our world.Talk with your loved ones about green and healthful habits you’ve adopted, or plan to pick up,  while staying at home. Now that masks are in short supply, many people are learning to make them from old clothes. Repurposing used materials, driving less, cooking more and planting a garden are all stay-at-home activities you could continue after the pandemic subsides. The planet will thank you!Keep it local in the kitchen. Growing your own herbs, shopping at farmers markets and supporting restaurants that use foods grown in North Carolina are all ways to boost our economy and minimize the environmental impacts of growing and      transporting foods.If COVID-19 prevents you from participating in your favorite Earth Day activity, take time to reflect on what you might have done in the past. Call and thank that parent, grandparent or teacher who gave you an awesome experience outdoors. Plan what you want to do outside once the pandemic is over.How are you celebrating Earth Day 2020? Snap a photo and let us know by tagging @WakeGOV on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Staying Updated on COVID-19Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its   Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-notifies-parents-of-possible-lead-exposure-at-daycare-school/


On April 17, 2020

Wake County Notifies Parents  of Possible Lead Exposure  at Daycare, SchoolOn April 17, 2020Even as Wake County works to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, county staff continues to monitor for other environmental contaminants through routine inspections of facilities that serve the public.On Thursday, Wake County mailed
notices to about 70 families whose children may have been exposed to unsafe
levels of lead dust at two downtown Raleigh facilities that serve children – Beginnings
and Beyond Child Development Center and Sacred Heart Cathedral School.“While COVID-19 is on the top
of everyone’s minds, Wake County is continuing the everyday inspections that protect
residents from other threats to their health,” said Andre Pierce, director of
Environmental Health and Safety. “Restaurants are still serving take-out, essential
workers are still entrusting their children to daycares, and our inspectors are
still behind the scenes working to keep facilities up to safe and accepted
standards.”The findings of lead dust
would not require the facilities to close, but each location has already closed
voluntarily due to COVID-19. Inspectors test for lead dust by collecting
samples with wet wipes and sending them to the N.C. State Laboratory of Public
Health for analysis. Wake County has notified the
operators of each facility and provided guidance for cleaning up the dust. Sacred
Heart Cathedral School has already completed cleaning, and more recent tests
show lead levels have been reduced to meet the standards enforced in North
Carolina. A simple blood test can determine whether a child has been exposed to lead. The notices mailed to parents recommend scheduling an appointment with a primary care physician or the Wake County Human Services children’s clinic.As families get blood testing for children, they should maintain social distancing and take other steps to prevent exposure to COVID-19. Wake County has implemented policies to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at its clinics, including closing nonessential services to reduce visits. Lead poisoning can cause
learning difficulties, behavioral problems, and other adverse health
consequences. For parents with additional questions, the mailed notice will
include contact information for a Wake County lead specialist.Protecting Staff and
Clients
Since the outbreak of COVID-19, Wake County Environmental Health and Safety has
continually updated its procedures for inspections according to the latest CDC
guidelines.Routine inspections continue for restaurants operating take-out and delivery service under the stay-at-home order. Among other precautions, Wake County staff are wearing face masks and practicing social distancing during visits.To reduce the number of outsiders
who come into contact with at-risk populations, Wake County has paused regular
inspections of long-term care facilities, such as nursing homes and assisted
living centers. If a specific report warrants inspection at one of these
facilities, staff wears comprehensive personal protective equipment, including
gloves, gowns, masks and face shields. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-extends-stay-at-home-order-to-protect-residents-from-covid-19/


On April 16, 2020

Wake County Extends Stay-at-Home Order to Protect Residents from COVID-19On April 16, 2020To continue efforts to slow the spread of COVID-19 in our community, Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford signed a new proclamation, extending the stay-at-home order through April 30.“While we’re making good progress to flatten the COVID-19 curve in our community, we haven’t hit our peak caseload yet, so it’s too early to lift our stay-at-home restrictions,” said Chairman Greg Ford. “However, we understand how challenging this is – particularly for businesses – which is why this extension includes provisions to help the local economy while enabling us to save lives.”Under the updated order, all retail businesses in the county, its 12 municipalities (Apex; Cary; Fuquay-Varina; Garner; Holly Springs; Knightdale; Morrisville; Raleigh; Rolesville; Wake Forest; Wendell; and Zebulon), and portions of Angier, Clayton and Durham located within Wake County, are allowed to operate if they provide delivery or curbside pickup options for customers. It also requires businesses designated as “essential” to comply with North Carolina Executive Order 131. The state order, which was signed on April 9, sets requirements for maximum occupancy, social distancing measures and cleaning protocols for retailers. The proclamation also reiterates the
need for employers to conduct basic health screenings – including temperature
checks, documenting changes in coughs or sore throats, and asking about
shortness of breath – and sending workers home if they are ill. In addition, the proclamation enables
faith organizations to hold drive-in services.“We know that in challenging times, religious and spiritual support is one way that people find strength and comfort,” said Ford. “While these services are accessible online, we have extended the ability to allow drive-in services if churches and places of worship are able to follow certain social-distancing parameters.” The full proclamation can be found here. An amendment to the proclamation can be found here. Seeing ResultsData show that social distancing and other mitigation efforts implemented under the county’s March 26 stay-at-home order are helping to slow the spread of the virus. Between March 17 and April 8, the doubling rate of COVID-19 cases has gone from about 3.5 days to about 8 days. While this is encouraging, projections
show that residents must continue practicing stay-at-home measures to further
flatten the COVID-19 curve and avoid overwhelming our local healthcare system. Wake County leadership monitors and
reassesses the situation on a daily basis to ensure the health and safety of
our community while also considering the long-term impacts of extended
stay-at-home orders. The county is paying close attention to projections and
lessons learned from other communities, nationally and globally, to make
informed decisions on when and how restrictions may be lifted without
compromising the health of our community. 
Staying Updated
Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information
about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The webpage also includes a “Help for Residents” area, which provides information about how to access a number of services, such as food and nutrition services, Medicaid, Work First benefits and more. For additional information, follow Wake County on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/park-staff-provide-virtual-programming/


On April 16, 2020

Park Staff Provide Virtual ProgrammingOn April 16, 2020Wake County parks are going digital to make sure residents can access programming—even while they stay at home. “While
our parks are still open, we canceled all public events and programs in
response to COVID-19,” said Chris Snow, director of Wake County Parks,
Recreation and Open Space. “Park staff really wanted to find a way to reach
people through educational activities, and they’ve come up with some innovative
ways to do so.” So they launched a new initiative—Wake Parks from Home. Participating parks include Blue Jay Point County Park, Crowder County Park, Historic Oak View County Park and Historic Yates Mill County Park. More parks will add programming soon. Examples
of current offerings include: Special videos hosted by park staff: Watch “Artifact Spotlights” from Historic Oak View County Park, “Tuesday Tidbits” from Blue Jay Point County Park      and more!Animal Tracks and Signs Bingo from Crowder County Park: Use the printable bingo cards provided to explore signs of animals in your own      backyard.Goat Barn Maze from Historic Oak View County Park: Help Felix his way to Leroy.Nature Scavenger Hunt from Historic Yates Mill County Park: Explore your backyard and search for critters and plants.Eastern Painted Turtles Activities from Blue Jay Point County Park: Have fun with art projects and word finds. New activities are being added regularly, so visitors are encouraged to check back often! Updates will posted on the parks’ social media channels as well. Several Wake County parks and preserves also offer mobile tours. The tour will show you a map of the property and indicate significant features and interesting spots to see. When you get to each point, you’ll have access to text, audio, photos and/or videos.Wake County Parks COVID-19 ResponseWake County parks and preserves are open during the Stay-at-Home order. Visitors must comply with all regulations set forth in the proclamation, including maintaining physical distance of at least six feet from any other person, with the exception of family or household members—even when outside.Wake
County parks are working to make this possible by limiting the number of people
allowed in the park at one time. If a park’s gate is closed or cones are
blocking the entrance, that means it has reached capacity. Parks that are run
by towns or cities may be operating differently—residents should reach out to
them directly before visiting their parks.  Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-reports-first-death-related-to-covid-19/


On April 15, 2020

Wake County Reports First Death Related to COVID-19On April 15, 2020A Wake
County resident has died as a result of COVID-19-related complications. He was
81 years old and the first known Wake County resident to have died from coronavirus.
No
additional information about the person will be released. “It’s heart-breaking,” said Regina Petteway, Wake County Human Services director. “My deepest sympathies go out to his family and loved ones, and I know that everyone working to slow the spread of this virus shares that sentiment. We must continue to do all we can individually to make a collective difference in the impact COVID-19 has on our community. And that means staying at home.”As of 11 a.m. today, North Carolina had 117 deaths associated with COVID-19. More than 27,000 people have died from the virus across the nation.  Staying Updated
Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information
about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate
residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and
phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about
COVID-19.The webpage also includes an “Assistance” area, which provides information
about how to access a number of services, such as food and nutrition services,
Medicaid, Work First benefits and more.For additional information, follow Wake County on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.###


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/6





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-second-covid-19-outbreak-at-long-term-care-facility/


On April 13, 2020

Wake County Identifies Second COVID-19 Outbreak at Long-Term Care FacilityOn April 13, 2020Wake County has identified a
second COVID-19 outbreak at a local long-term care facility. Sunnybrook
Rehabilitation Center in Raleigh currently has five positive cases of the
virus. The breakdown:Three are residents of the facility. Of those, two remain in isolation at Sunnybrook Rehabilitation Center. One is undergoing treatment at WakeMed Health & Hospitals.Two are employees of the facility. They are isolating at home, recovering from the virus.“We consider residents of
long-term care facilities like this one to be at higher risk for serious
illness if they contract COVID-19, because they’re generally older and may have
other health conditions,” said Wake County EMS Director/Medical Director Dr.
Jose Cabanas. “That’s why we’re working closely with the center to conduct
additional testing to prevent the spread of the virus and keep people safe.”Wake County sent a public health
team to the 95-bed center today to test 25 residents who are showing symptoms
of COVID-19. Our team is also testing employees came in close contact with
these patients.Another Positive Case at
Wellington Facility
Wake County has received another
positive COVID-19 test result associated with the Wellington Rehabilitation and
Healthcare in Knightdale.The person is an employee of
the facility. This individual is currently isolating at home.Staying Updated
Wake County has
made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You
can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of
frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email
address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related
questions about COVID-19.

The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/positive-cases-of-covid-19-at-knightdale-long-term-care-facility-now-at-47/


On April 12, 2020

Positive Cases of COVID-19 at Knightdale Long-Term Care Facility Now at 47On April 12, 2020Wake County has identified 43 additional people at Wellington
Rehabilitation and Healthcare in Knightdale who have tested positive for
COVID-19. This brings the total number of positive cases at the facility to 47.Of those 43 new cases,18 are patients who the
facility says are currently asymptomatic and 25 are staff members. Results are
still pending on 21 tests.On April 9, four people at the facility—two
nurses and two patients—tested positive for the virus. This was the county’s
first outbreak of COVID-19 at a long-term care facility. “We’re working closely with the operators of
the facility and advising them on the best ways to prevent the virus from
spreading further,” said Wake County EMS/Medical Director Dr. Jose Cabanas.
“They’re following our guidance and isolating the positive patients to a single
wing of the building.”At this time, the first two patients who tested
positive are the only ones in the hospital receiving treatment. The county has provided the following guidance
to the facility operator, regarding staffing:If employees experience symptoms of the virus, they should stay home for seven days. Once they are fever free for three consecutive days after that, they can return to work.       If staff test negative for COVID-19 and have no symptoms, they can return to work.       If employees test positive and have no symptoms, they can return to work, but they can only support the wing where the positive patients are located and must wear the appropriate personal protective equipment at all times, per guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to mitigate staffing shortages. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. ###


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-identifies-first-covid-19-outbreak-at-long-term-care-facility/


On April 9, 2020

Wake County Identifies First COVID-19 Outbreak at Long-Term Care FacilityOn April 9, 2020Wake County today identified the county’s first
outbreak of COVID-19 at a long-term care facility. To date, four people – two nurses
and two patients – at Wellington Rehabilitation and Healthcare in Knightdale
have tested positive for the coronavirus.“We’re concerned about the potential for
COVID-19 to spread rapidly among residents at the facility, because many of the
residents are older and have additional health conditions that put them at risk
of serious illness if they contract the virus,” said Wake County Medical
Director Dr. Kim McDonald. The two patients who tested positive for
COVID-19 are currently receiving treatment at WakeMed Health and Hospitals.To get a better sense of the true impact of the virus on the 80-bed facility, Wake County Public Health team is testing patients and staff members who came in close contact with the people who have the virus. It will likely take 7–10 days to get the test results back. Until then, public health is advising
Wellington Rehabilitation and Healthcare that staff wear personal protective
equipment at all times, practice appropriate social distancing and frequently
clean surfaces with disinfectant.Wake County Emergency Operations Center
organized a conference call this evening with the operators of the facility and
reviewed these requirements:Abide by Wake County’s proclamation, which prevents nursing homes and long-term care facilities from accepting visitors;Prevent staff from working second jobs at other locations to avoid spread of the virus; Isolate symptomatic residents from healthy residents; andFollow new safety procedures established by EMS and local fire departments when calling for emergency assistance.Wake County has spoken with Wellington
Rehabilitation and Healthcare several times since the Emergency Operations
Center activated in early March. Our call center gave the facility guidance on
how to manage sick and healthy employees, and how to setup testing for its
residents. Staying Updated Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/changes-to-wake-county-animal-services-due-to-covid-19/


On April 9, 2020

Changes to Wake County Animal Services Due to COVID-19On April 9, 2020The Wake County Animal Center is working hard to protect staff and visitors from COVID-19 while continuing to allow adoptions and provide emergency animal control services. “As your community shelter, we want to thank everyone for helping us keep our staff healthy, so they can continue to care for the pets at the shelter,” said Dr. Jennifer Federico, director of the Wake County Animal Center. “We look forward to the day when we can welcome everyone back to the animal center. Until then, stay safe, stay home and stay healthy!”Appointments Needed to Visit
to the Animal Center
Until further notice, an appointment is required for all
visits to the animal center.That includes:AdoptionsLooking for lost petsBringing in straysOwners bringing in pets
     to surrenderCall 919-212-PETS to make an appointment.
Scheduling visits will reduce the interactions among visitors and give staff
time to sanitize the center between trips. Appointments are available noon to 6
p.m., seven days a week. Same-day appointments may not be available.Before you call, you can look online for a furry friend to join you during the stay-at-home order. Go to pets.wakegov.com to see who’s available!What to Do If You See Stray
Animals
Wake County Animal Control has reduced its response right now
to emergency calls only, which means officers will not respond to calls about
stray animals. So, what should you do if you spot a stray?Look for a collar. If the pet has a collar or tags and appears friendly, approach the animal and look for information about the pet’s owner. Don’t approach an animal unless you feel comfortable doing so!       If you don’t see a collar or feel uncomfortable going near the animal, keep your distance and snap a photo to share on social media. We find people have the best luck on NextDoor.       Ask a postal worker. Many mail carriers know where dogs live along their routes.       Still can’t find the owner? Call us at 919-212-PETS and make an appointment to bring the stray to the Wake County Animal Center.Plan Ahead for Pets in Case You Get SickMost COVID-19 patients don’t need hospitalization, but now is the time to make sure someone could take care of your pets in your absence.If possible, your pets would be most
comfortable staying at your home or with a friend who knows them. Also, make
sure you have a two-week supply of food and medication on hand for your pets.Hold on to Donations for NowIf you have donations for the shelter, please hold onto them for the time being. We have enough supplies, and we want to limit our foot traffic to those adopting animals.We know a lot of people are knocking out their
spring cleaning during the stay-at-home order, and we’ll be happy to take those
extra towels and blankets once our operations are back to normal.About the Wake County Animal CenterThe Wake County Animal Center is an open-admission shelter operated by Wake County in Raleigh. The center receives all stray, abandoned and surrendered pets in the county and works in partnership with fosters, volunteers and local rescues to treat and rehome thousands of homeless animals every year.To learn more about the Wake County Animal Center and animals available for adoption, visit wakegov.com/pets and follow @WakeGovPets on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Staying Updated on COVID-19Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-receives-100000-gift-to-aid-covid-19-response-efforts/


On April 8, 2020

Wake County Receives $100,000 Gift to Aid COVID-19 Response EffortsOn April 8, 2020Wake County has received a $100,000 gift from an anonymous donor to support the county’s COVID-19 response efforts.  “This is an incredibly generous gesture,” said Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford. “The donor, a long-time resident of Wake County, did not specifically earmark how funds should be used, but was clear that we should make the most of every penny. That is certainly a promise I am happy to make—and to keep.”The $100,000 donation is the first private gift received by the
county during the COVID-19 pandemic and will be used to offset the costs
associated with running the county’s Emergency Operations Center. As of April
3, those costs are estimated at $3.8 million.Now in its 36th day of operations, the EOC is staffed by more
than 130 county employees from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. seven days a week. These
employees represent departments from across the county including public health,
emergency management, EMS, fire services, finance, law enforcement,
communications and more. Together, they are working to slow the spread of
COVID-19, keep our communities safe, work collaboratively with public/private partners
and respond to those affected by the virus.  Staying Updated
Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the
latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/local-business-helps-wake-county-overhaul-essential-n95-masks/


On April 7, 2020

Local Business Helps Wake County Overhaul Essential N95 MasksOn April 7, 2020A small business in Morrisville is joining Wake County’s effort to provide protective masks to first responders and healthcare workers on the frontlines of the COVID-19 response. The partnership will not only provide the county with thousands of N95 masks to keep employees safe from coronavirus, but it’s also giving much-needed work to PSB Pro Services during an economic downturn. “This is a great example of the public and private sectors working together to create an innovative solution locally to a national problem,” said Wake County Manager David Ellis. “This kind of partnership and ingenuity is exactly what we need during this health crisis.”  Wake County – like communities across the
country – does not currently have enough personal protective equipment for the
duration of this pandemic. As staff explored all options to acquire the needed
PPE, they focused on a stockpile of N95 masks in storage in the county’s
emergency services warehouse. The issue? The masks were several years old, and
the elastic bands that hold the masks in place would break whenever employees
tried to put them on.“We knew the masks were in excellent condition
and could provide the protection our crews needed, but without functioning
bands to hold them in place, they were no good to us,” said Wake County EMS
Director/Medical Director Dr. Jose Cabanas. “We couldn’t let this potential
opportunity pass without exploring all options to fix the bands.”Our team in the Emergency Operations Center got to work, creating potential prototypes for the masks. Once county staff developed a feasible prototype, they needed to find a partner with the expertise and equipment to operationalize production in mass. By chance, an EMS employee was discussing the situation with a friend who referred him to Andy Scoggins, owner of PSB Pro Services, who offered to try to help. Scoggins discovered his company – which
normally sharpens skates for hockey and figure skating and makes custom team
apparel – could use its industrial sewing machines to sew new elastic bands
into the fabric of the masks, creating a strong link that wouldn’t break.
Scoggins’ staff tested the masks and verified that the stitching enabled the
masks to stay in place when worn.“Thanks to PSB Pro Services, we’ll now have an
additional stock of N95 masks going out to first responders and healthcare
workers across the county,” said Dr. Cabanas. “Although it’s not enough to
completely fill the gap, it’s a great help, and we appreciate their
service.”  Thanks to Wake County’s order, PSB Pro Services
is getting a financial boost at a time when the local economy is sagging. The
company had just laid off two employees before taking on the mask project, but
the county’s order enabled Scoggins to reverse that decision and rehire the
team members. “PSB Pro Services, we know the importance of protecting first responders,” said Scoggins. “Ours is a veteran-owned company, and our staff include a retired Raleigh police officer and a retired New York firefighter. We’re proud to collaborate with Wake County on this important effort.” The company is still closed to the public, but staff is working remotely to fill the county’s orders.  In addition to the work PSB Pro Services is doing, four Wake County residents have volunteered to help with efforts to replace the bands.  The group of women reached out to Wake County EMS around the time it was looking for ways to replace the bands and immediately agreed to work out of their homes to update the N95 masks. Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.  The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. ###


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/board-approves-8-8-million-emergency-funds-appropriation-to-support-covid-19-operations/


On April 6, 2020

Board Approves $8.8 million Emergency Funds Appropriation to Support COVID-19 OperationsOn April 6, 2020Today, the Wake County Board of Commissioners voted unanimously to appropriate $8.8 million of county fund balance to defray the costs of the county’s ongoing COVID-19 response. The new appropriation comes after commissioners granted $2
million in funding on March 16 toward expenses associated with COVID-19
emergency response. Through April 3, estimated costs associated with that
response totaled $3.8 million.

“Our lives – and our community – have been turned upside down with the new
reality of social distancing and staying at home,” said Wake County Board of
Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford. “It’s obvious that our COVID-19 response is a
marathon, not a sprint, and Wake County is ready to continue serving our
residents as we navigate this uncertain time.”

The funding enables Wake County to provide vital services that protect public
health and safety through its Emergency Operations Center efforts.
Specifically, the appropriated funds will be used to:Purchase
of personal protective equipment and other emergency supplies;Provide enhanced
coverage for emergency response activities, such as EMS and fire services; Provide
COVID-19-related public health services; andFund
daily EOC operations, including logistical support, services and the
supplemental pay of approximately 100 employees who staff 12-hour shifts.Federal and State Reimbursements
The county is tracking all expenditures incurred during its emergency
response and will seek reimbursement from federal and state response programs. On March 26, the $2 trillion Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act was approved by the Congress and the President. This stimulus package will provide reimbursement funding to local governments. One day prior, on March 25, the President approved North Carolina’s disaster declaration, making counties within the state eligible for reimbursement of a portion of expenses incurred. Staying Updated
Wake County has
made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.

You can visit
our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of
frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of
COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email
address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related
questions about COVID-19.






Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-accepting-donations-of-cleaning-supplies-protective-equipment/


On April 6, 2020

Wake County Accepting Donations of Cleaning Supplies, Protective EquipmentOn April 6, 2020  Residents with extra cleaning supplies and
protective equipment can donate them to Wake County to help protect first
responders and public-facing service staff involved in the COVID-19 response.
The county’s supply is running low, so it’s encouraging anyone who may have a
surplus to donate.  “We’re completely out of spray cleaner, and our
stock of masks and gloves is so limited that we can’t fulfill all the requests
coming in from our partner agencies,” said Darrell Alford, Wake County
Emergency Operations Center manager. “Donations from the public will go along
way to helping increase our supply and keep our employees healthy and safe.” The county is accepting the following items: 
Hand sanitizerDisinfectant spray and wipesN95 face masks (no cloth or homemade masks)Exam glovesAntibacterial soapThose interested in donating should call
919-856-6946 or email volunteer-donations@wakeeoc.com.Only unused or unopened items can be accepted
at this time. Wake County staff will work with residents who donate to arrange
a time to pick up or drop off the supplies. Staying Updated Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.  You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/libraries-host-online-writing-contest-for-kids/


On April 4, 2020

Libraries Host Online Writing Contest for KidsOn April 4, 2020Do you have a young author at home looking to showcase their skills? Here’s their chance to step into the spotlight.Wake County Public Libraries is hosting an online story writing contest for kids in kindergarten through grade 5. Entries will be accepted until April 30.“We recognize that this is a challenging time in our children’s lives, and we hope this gives them something new to focus on,” said Ann Burlingame, deputy director of Wake County Public Libraries. “There are many ways to tell a story—and we look forward to seeing some creative entries.” Here are the rules:Only one entry per student.Entries should be original, 1,000 words or less and handwritten or typed.Illustrations are encouraged, but not required. Winners will be selected from each grade level. Winning entries will be featured on Wake County Public Libraries’ website and Facebook page.The story writing contest was originally part of a program that started at West Regional Library 12 years ago. Participants took part in a month of programs to develop writing skills and then had the opportunity to read their stories out loud at an awards ceremony.This year, WCPL planned to expand the program to other locations. But when COVID-19 closed libraries, librarians instead transitioned the contest to an online experience, making it possible to reach more people and widen the age range.Fill out this form to enter the contest.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-prevent-temporarily-expands-assistance-for-families-living-in-hotels/


On April 3, 2020

Wake Prevent! Temporarily Expands Assistance for Families Living in HotelsOn April 3, 2020Recognizing the added stress COVID-19 has placed on people in our community experiencing or at risk of homelessness, Wake Prevent! has temporarily changed the way it supports local families living in hotels. Beginning
April 6, families may be eligible for financial assistance to remain in place
for up to 12 weeks if they:Currently live in a hotel;Have experienced a loss of income due to COVID-19; andHave children who are younger than school-age or students
     enrolled in the Wake County Public School System or a local charter.Under
normal circumstances, Wake County’s Housing and Community Revitalization
Department aims to help people living in hotels find a more permanent place to live.
But, given the outbreak of COVID-19, the Wake Prevent! program has
reprioritized its efforts to focus on stopping the spread of coronavirus.“It’s
impossible to abide by the stay-at-home order when you do not have a home,”
Wake County Commissioner Jessica Holmes said. “Refocusing our housing efforts
is not only the right thing to do by our most vulnerable families, but this is
also in the public’s best interest in our common goal to keep everyone healthy
and safe.” The
temporary policy strikes the proper balance while Wake County works to battle
both homelessness and COVID-19, said Lorena McDowell, director of Housing and
Community Revitalization.“By
providing assistance to families in hotels, we’re helping to ease their burden
and keep them safe, while also helping them follow the county’s stay-at-home
order, so we can slow the spread of coronavirus in our community,” McDowell
said.For more information about the program and to learn more about eligibility, families can call 919-856-5661 or email covid19.housing.hotelfamilies@wakegov.com. About Wake Prevent!
Launched
in late 2019, Wake Prevent! aims to help families in the most precarious of
situations and at risk of becoming homeless. It is supported by local
nonprofits Families Together, Passage Home and Triangle Family ServicesWake Prevent! rental assistance and case management services are
available to Wake County families who are:At or below 50% of the area median income (currently $33,720 for a family of four); and       Less than 30 days to becoming homeless.They must also meet at least one of the following criteria:Currently fleeing or attempting to flee domestic violence;       Doubling up (couch surfing) and told to leave the unit;       Notified by the property owner or manager that they must vacate a leased property;       Paying for a hotel/motel without assistance; and/or       Exiting an institution (mental/physical health, prison) with no resources or support system to assist upon      release.About the Department of Housing Affordability
and Community Revitalization
Wake
County’s Department of Housing Affordability and Community Revitalization works
to implement housing affordability strategies and services that are not
supported by the housing market with the end goal of making the county more
affordable to more people. The department consists of three divisions – Housing
Affordability and Community Development, Homelessness and Prevention Services,
and Permanent Housing and Supportive Services — working seamlessly as a unit
to make living in Wake County affordable and eradicate homelessness. Staying Updated Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.  You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/7





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/board-of-commissioners-to-hold-virtual-meeting-on-april-6/


On April 3, 2020

Board of Commissioners to Hold Virtual Meeting on April 6On April 3, 2020Instead of holding its regular meeting in person on Monday, April 6, the Wake County Board of Commissioners will meet virtually in accordance with the March 26 Stay-at-Home order. The board room will be closed for the meeting.Members of the public can watch the meeting live here.Those who would like to submit public comments may do so between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. on Monday, April 6, via the county’s website.  “We know that things are not business-as-usual in our community,” said Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford. “However, there is important county business that we must conduct to support our response during these unprecedented times. I’m grateful that we are able to meet, albeit virtually, to discuss these important matters, so we are well-positioned to move forward – together – as we navigate our future.”Among other items of regular business, the board is expected to vote on an $8.8 million appropriation of county fund balance to defray the costs of its ongoing COVID-19 response.The new appropriation request comes after commissioners granted $2 million in funding on March 16 toward expenses associated with our COVID-19 response. Through March 23, the estimated costs associated with that response totaled just under $1.1 million.A full agenda can be found here.  Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/new-virtual-storytimes-now-online/


On April 2, 2020

New Virtual Storytimes Now OnlineOn April 2, 2020Wake County librarians are making it possible for families to enjoy one of their most popular programs—even when libraries are closed. It’s Storytime Anytime!A new collection of virtual storytimes is now available online. That means families can still experience the educational and entertaining programming they’ve come to expect from Wake County Public Libraries while abiding by the county’s stay-at-home order.“We know that for many families, storytime is a regular part of their lives,” said Ann Burlingame, deputy director of Wake County Public Libraries. “We wanted to make it possible to have that same experience at home, especially while we’re working our way through such a difficult time.”Storytimes, which use talking, singing, reading, writing and playing to help get children ready to read, are posted for toddlers, preschoolers and families. A bilingual version is also available, and additional storytimes are in the works!You can access the storytimes here. The page also features downloadable coloring sheets. Parents are encouraged to show off their children’s creations on social media using the hashtag #StorytimeAnytime. Wake County Public Libraries offers an array of library resources you can access from home. Register online for a library card, download the WCPL app and then browse a robust collection of audiobooks, e-books, video-on-demand and more. These features are available here.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.




Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/gotriangle-bus-driver-tests-positive-for-covid-19/


On March 30, 2020

GoTriangle Bus Driver Tests Positive for COVID-19On March 30, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division has learned that a GoTriangle bus driver has tested positive for COVID-19. This person operated a bus from March 18–20 while experiencing coronavirus symptoms.“Because the bus driver came to work for three days while symptomatic, it’s possible bus riders or other GoTriangle employees were exposed to the virus,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “The fluid nature of transit makes it impossible to determine who may have had close contact with the driver, so we’ve set up a hotline for concerned residents to call for guidance.”The GoTriangle information line is 919-857-9375. It informs callers that the bus driver operated the following routes March 18–20 from 5:25 a.m.–9:35 a.m. and 3:05 p.m.–7 p.m.:Route 300 – Travels between the Regional Transit Center, the Cary train station and the GoRaleigh station; andRoute 305 – Travels between Apex at Lake Pine Drive and Waverly Place and the GoRaleigh station.Anyone who worked at GoTriangle or rode those routes during that timeframe and starts to experience COVID-19 symptoms should self-isolate for seven days after the onset of symptoms. Common symptoms include fever of 100.4 or higher, cough and difficulty breathing.If your symptoms are mild, you do not need testing. Once your symptoms resolve, you should remain at home without fever for three more days. If serious illness develops, you should call your primary care provider. If you have trouble breathing, you should call 9-1-1.“This situation illustrates perfectly why we ask people who are sick not to come to work,” said Dr. McDonald. “Staying at home and practicing social distancing are critical to slowing the spread of COVID-19 and protecting the health and safety of our residents.”The county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-contractor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/


On March 29, 2020

Wake County Contractor Tests Positive for COVID-19On March 29, 2020In a continued effort to be open and transparent about the impacts of COVID-19, Wake County is alerting employees that one of its contractors has tested positive for the virus. The person was supporting public health and clinical services in the Sunnybrook building and reported to work while symptomatic.“Because there is community spread of the virus, it was just a matter of time before our staff was directly impacted,” said Wake County Human Services Director Regina Petteway. “Unfortunately, this situation is a good example of why people who have fever, cough and respiratory issues should not come to work, and instead, stay home and help slow the spread of COVID-19.”Our public health team has tracked the person’s movements and determined that 16 people were exposed to the virus and have symptoms. They are all in the process of being tested for COVID-19, because they all work in the healthcare field.With the county’s shift to a mitigation strategy, healthcare workers are one of the groups the county is reserving its tests and protective gear for when they become symptomatic, because they are on the frontlines of the coronavirus response.Our public health team has also contacted and required employees who came in close contact with the affected person – but have not developed symptoms – to self-monitor at home for up to 14 days.The county has contracted with a disinfecting service to clean the affected areas of the Sunnybrook building today. As part of that process, it will be closed until Monday, March 30, at noon.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/new-dashboard-provides-snapshot-of-covid-19-in-wake-county/


On March 27, 2020

New Dashboard Provides Snapshot of COVID-19 in Wake CountyOn March 27, 2020On Friday, March 27, Wake County launched a new dashboard that provides important and current data about how COVID-19 is affecting our community.“By sharing this information broadly, residents can see the growing number of coronavirus cases in our community and better understand why we’re asking them to stay home and limit the time they spend in public,” said Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford. “We all have a personal responsibility to slow the spread of COVID-19 and help keep each other safe.”The dashboard is updated three times per day – at around 8:15 a.m., noon and 5 p.m. It includes:Total number of confirmed positive COVID-19 cases;Average age of those with the virus; andA gender breakdown (when provided on testing forms).The dashboard does not provide any information that might be considered identifiable in order to protect the privacy of our residents who are ill.“In addition to providing this data to the public, we are using this information to project the impact of COVID-19 on our local healthcare system,” said Dr. Kim McDonald, Wake County medical director. “The reality is unless we, the community, do our part to slow the spread of the virus, our hospitals, doctors and nurses will be in a precarious situation where they may not be able to care for everyone who gets sick.”Wake County’s stay-at-home order goes into effect today at 5 p.m. The proclamation, which was signed by Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford, mandates that Wake County residents stay home and away from others who are not immediate members of their family or household. By restricting contact, the county hopes to reduce the rate at which COVID-19 is infecting residents.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-issues-stay-at-home-proclamation-to-help-slow-the-spread-of-covid-19/


On March 26, 2020

Wake County Issues Stay-at-Home Proclamation to Help Slow the Spread of COVID-19On March 26, 2020As the number of positive COVID-19 cases continues to rise in Wake County, so are concerns that the virus could overwhelm our local healthcare system. To help prevent that from happening, Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford signed a proclamation today that puts a stay-at-home order in effect on Friday, March 27, at 5 p.m.“If we’re serious about protecting our community, we need to get serious about staying at home, so we can slow the spread of COVID-19,” said Chairman Ford. “That’s why we moved swiftly to implement this measure. Our short-term sacrifices can mean very literally the difference between life and death for some of our residents – and it would be irresponsible not to act.”The goal of the proclamation is for Wake County residents to stay home and away from others who are not immediate members of their family or household. By restricting contact, the county hopes to reduce the rate at which COVID-19 is infecting residents.The stay-at-home order includes the following mandates:All non-essential facilities, services, operations and retail businesses must close.Gatherings of any size are prohibited.People of any age with medical conditions should not leave their homes except to get medical care.Social distancing must be practiced while in public.Public transportation should only be used if necessary. If public transport is a person’s primary way to get around, they should abide by social distancing best practices, standing and sitting at least six feet apart and using sanitizing products.The stay-at-home does not restrict activities such as:Shopping for food at the grocery store or picking up take-out meals from a local restaurantOperating businesses that provide critical services like hospitals, government agencies and financial institutionsCaring for a family member or pet in another householdProviding childcare for parents who have to go to work at jobs that are considered essentialUtilizing plumbers, electricians, exterminators and others who help maintain the safety and sanitation of residencesVisiting a local park, greenway or nature preserve while practicing social distancingFor a comprehensive list, read the proclamation, which is attached to this news release. It will remain in effect until April 16 at which time the county will re-evaluate the situation and determine if an extension is needed.“We’ve been in constant conversation with our partners at the local hospitals and in the municipalities since the pandemic took hold here,” said Wake County Manager David Ellis. “Together, we looked at the growing caseload in our community and determined a stay-at-home order was the best way to help protect our residents and healthcare workers from contracting COVID-19.”Wake County has set up a dedicated phone line – 919-856-7420 – to address business-specific questions related to the stay-at-home order. In addition, special FAQs focused on the business community are posted on the county’s COVID-19 webpage here.Wake County is also working with the Raleigh Chamber of Commerce and Wake County Economic Development to help communicate with the business community about these changes and share important resources to support them during this challenging time.You can protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Stay home and go out only to take care of basic needs.Stay away from sick people and practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The webpage also includes a “Help for Residents” area, which provides information about how to access a number of services, such as food and nutrition services, Medicaid, Work First benefits and more. For additional information, follow Wake County on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-transitions-to-new-strategy-to-fight-covid-19-2/


On March 24, 2020

Wake County Transitions to New Strategy to Fight COVID-19On March 24, 2020With the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services confirming that there is community spread of COVID-19 across the state, Wake County is changing its strategy to fight the virus.Community spread means there are COVID-19-positive residents who do not know where or how they became infected with the virus. Specifically, these individuals did not travel to a high-risk location, nor did they have known close contact with an existing COVID-19-positive person.“Now that North Carolina has community transmission of the virus, we are moving to a community-based mitigation strategy aimed at decreasing the spread, especially among those most at risk of serious illness,” said Dr. Kim McDonald, Wake County medical director. “In this phase, testing and contact tracing are more focused than in the broad-based containment approach we executed early in the outbreak.”Under the new strategy, individuals and families who do not fall into an at-risk group but start to experience COVID-19 symptoms – fever, cough and difficulty breathing – should self-isolate for seven days after the onset of symptoms. If symptoms are mild, they do not need testing.Once the symptoms resolve, they should remain at home without fever for three more days.If serious illness develops, they should call their primary care provider. If they have trouble breathing, they should call 9-1-1.In addition, the county will continue to monitor the at-risk people it tests. The county will no longer monitor cases in the public at large.Mitigation efforts will help to slow the spread of the virus and allow us to better prepare for COVID-19’s impact on vulnerable populations and the healthcare system.The purpose of our initial approach was to pinpoint where in the county COVID-19 was occurring and try to contain the spread. Now that the county knows the virus has spread throughout the county, it must begin conserving resources such as personal protective equipment for healthcare workers and direct testing to those more likely to become seriously ill.As a result, starting today, the county will reserve its tests and protective gear for two main groups of people if they become symptomatic:Seniors ages 65 and older and people with underlying health conditions. They will be among the first to be tested, because they are most at risk of experiencing serious illness if they contract the virus.First responders and healthcare workers. They are on the frontlines of this situation, and if they are infected, the county doesn’t want them spreading COVID-19 to anyone else. Conversely, if they test negative for the virus, they can return sooner to their important jobs caring for and protecting our residents.By shifting to a new strategy, the county is able to preserve limited protective equipment and test kits for groups at highest risk of contracting the virus and experiencing significant health impacts such as hospitalization, organ failure or death.The new approach also enables the county to help protect our community’s healthcare system from becoming overwhelmed, so local hospitals can continue to treat only those who need critical care.“While our strategy to fight COVID-19 is changing, health and safety recommendations for the public are not,” said Dr. McDonald. “Residents should keep practicing social distancing, washing their hands often and staying home while sick. We’re all in this together, and every precaution taken helps prevent the virus from spreading further.”Businesses and community organizations allowed to remain open are encouraged to alter work practices and schedules to protect at-risk populations. Some options to consider include teleworking, staggering shift work, extending spring breaks and conducting health screenings.People should avoid nursing homes, assisted living centers and long-term care facilities. Starting March 25, they cannot allow visitors per Gov. Roy Cooper’s executive order.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-covid-19-cases-at-66/


On March 23, 2020

Wake County COVID-19 Cases at 66On March 23, 2020Wake County is investigating 14 new positive cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of positive test results in Wake County to 66.“While we continue to learn about new positive cases in our community, our message to you remains the same,” said Dr. Kim McDonald, Wake County medical director. “Practice social distancing, wash your hands, don’t touch your face, and if you feel sick, stay at home and isolate yourself. If we, as a community, can slow the spread of the virus, we can lessen the burden on our healthcare system while protecting our high-risk neighbors.”Protecting Our Homeless and Vulnerable PopulationsWake County’s response to COVID-19 has focused on keeping residents well-informed and safe. Of course, part of that strategy includes paying particular attention to supporting our most vulnerable people, including our homeless population.The county has taken steps at the South Wilmington Street Center to reduce the risk of COVID-19 for residents who depend on the county for a place to sleep at night.“These residents are vulnerable all the time, but they are especially vulnerable right now,” said Lorena McDowell, director of Wake County’s Housing Affordability and Community Revitalization Department. “We understand that we have to think differently to protect them, and that’s what we’re doing.”Normally, the shelter does not serve lunch, because guests are encouraged to get outside during the day to look for work or attend appointments. But, last week, the South Wilmington Street Center added lunch service in an effort to keep guests at the shelter – their temporary home – and away from germs in the community.The shelter is also working to promote social distancing. Guests are assigned to specific dorms, and meals are served on a schedule, dorm by dorm, instead of bringing everyone together to eat in the dining hall. If a guest starts showing symptoms of illness, he would be moved to a mitigation dorm, and staff would call Wake County EMS.Guests have also taken a Slow the Spread Pledge, which asks them to commit to handwashing, social distancing, supporting each other and reporting any symptoms they experience to staff.In addition, Wake County is thinking creatively about how we can expand not only our sheltering capabilities through public/private partnerships, but also how we can make sure people have access to the services they need, including supporting residents who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19 and now face homelessness. Details will be provided in the coming days.The Wake County State of Emergency Declaration signed yesterday by Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford indicated that nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers are required to cease group activities that don’t allow for social distancing.In addition, the declaration indicated that residents may only have one adult visitor per day, unless it is an end-of-life situation, and the visitor must go through health screening before entering the building.Today, however, Gov. Roy Cooper signed an Executive Order that supplants Wake County’s declaration and takes effect at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, March 25.Under the Governor’s order, visitors are not allowed to go to nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers for 30 days.All other Wake County restrictions remain as proclaimed in the March 22 Declaration.Accessing Wake County Economic and Social ServicesMedicaidTo apply for Medicaid, people have four options:Apply online at epass.nc.gov.Mail completed, signed applications to: Wake County Human Services, P.O. Box 46833, Raleigh, N.C. 27620.Fax completed, signed applications to 919-212-7028.Apply by calling 818-212-7000.Medicaid questions can be emailed to FCMAintake@wakegov.com.Food and Nutrition ServicesTo apply for food and nutrition services, people may:Apply online at epass.nc.gov.Mail completed, signed applications to: Wake County Human Services, P.O. Box 46833, Raleigh, N.C. 27620Fax completed, signed applications to 919-212-7028.Questions related to food and nutrition services can be emailed to foodandnutrition@wakegov.com.If you need to speak to your case worker, call 919-212-7000.Energy AssistanceMost utility providers are not currently disconnecting service during the COVID-19 outbreak. However, you can obtain an application for energy assistance by calling 919-212-7000 or downloading an application here.You may apply for the low-income energy assistance program until March 31 by completing this application.Child Protective ServicesThe county will no longer accept walk-ins at any location. For questions about child welfare services, call 919-212-7000.If you suspect child abuse or neglect, call the Wake County report line at 919-212-7990 (English) or 919-212-7963 (Spanish) between the hours of 8:30 a.m.–5 p.m.If a child is in immediate danger, call 9-1-1.Childcare SubsidyTo apply for assistance with childcare costs, email childcaresubsidy@wakegov.com. You can call 919-212-7000 or 919-212-7515 with any questions.Work First BenefitsWork First family assistance assessments and application interviews will be conducted by phone. Please call 919-212-7846 for an interview.As the COVID-19 situation continues to evolve, the health and welfare of our community remains the county’s top objective. As a result, the county is pausing or curtailing some services, including:Permits and Inspections: The time it takes to issue permits and inspections may slow down during this period. The Permit Counter and the GIS (Maps) Counter will only open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m.Regional Centers: All county regional centers (Northern, Southern, Eastern, Western and Millbrook Human Services Centers) are closed to the public.Veterans Services Office: Scheduling an appointment in advance is recommended. The office will be open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m. at the Falstaff location only.Tax Administration: The office is open only to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m.A full list of changes can be found here.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-covid-19-cases-at-52/


On March 22, 2020

Wake County COVID-19 Cases at 52On March 22, 2020Note: We want to share important information with you as efficiently as possible. Going forward, we will combine all COVID-19-related updates into one news release each day. This news release will be emailed to you around 5 p.m. We will send additional news releases in some circumstances.Wake County is investigating three new positive cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of positive test results in Wake County to 52.As of 5 p.m. on March 22, there are 54 people under investigation who were exposed to the virus and have developed symptoms.In response to the rising number of positive cases of COVID-19, Wake County is putting new restrictions in place to help stop the spread of coronavirus and protect the local healthcare system from becoming overwhelmed.Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford has amended the county’s State of Emergency Declaration. The changes he enacted will require some business to close, prohibit gatherings of 50 people or more, change visitation practices at nursing homes and restrict the use of playground equipment at local parks.“We know these are challenging times, and we appreciate the sacrifices people are making for the benefit of our community’s health,” Ford said. “By putting these new restrictions and recommendations into effect, we’re slowing the spread of the virus, protecting our residents who are most at-risk and ensuring our healthcare system has the capacity to continue serving our community.”The county has set up a dedicated phone line to address business-specific questions: 919-856-7420. In addition, additional FAQs have been included on the county’s COVID-19 webpage here.The declaration requires that business types listed below must close by 8 a.m. Monday, March 23, and remain closed through Thursday, April 30.Fitness centers and clubsGymsHair salonsBarber shopsNail salonsSpasTanning salonsMassage establishmentsTattoo parlorsAny professional grooming servicesIf your business is not listed above and you can maintain the following conditions, your business may remain open:Serving 50 people or less at one time.Ensuring a six-foot distance between patrons and employees at all times.Many types of businesses are exempt from the new restrictions. See a full list here.If you have determined you may remain open, Wake County strongly recommends that businesses screen employees and customers for fever and respiratory illness before they enter the facility, sending sick employees home.Wake County is partnering with the Raleigh Chamber of Commerce and Wake County Economic Development to share resources with all businesses impacted by closures and service restrictions. You can visit their COVID-19 resource page for more information.The declaration also requires nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers to cease group activities that don’t allow for social distancing. Residents can only have one adult visitor per day, unless it is an end-of-life situation, and the visitor must be screened for:fever of 100.4 degrees or higher,a cough anddifficulty breathing before they can enter the building.Playground equipment and bathrooms at Wake County Parks, Recreation and Open Space locations are closed through April 30. Parks and preserves remain open, but visitors are asked to practice social distancing. Mobile tours are available for several Wake County parks. Grab your smart phone and experience our parks in a new, interactive way!As we navigate the fluid situation caused by COVID-19, the county continues to keep the health and welfare of our community as our top objective. As a result, some county services may be paused or curtailed, including:Permits and Inspections: The time to issue permits and inspections may slow down during this period. The Permit Counter will only open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m. The GIS (Maps) counter will only open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m.Regional Centers: All county regional centers (Northern, Southern, Eastern, Western and Millbrook Human Services Centers) are closed to the public.Veterans Services Office: Scheduling an appointment in advance is recommended. The office will be open to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m., at the Falstaff location only.Tax Administration: The office is open only to the public on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10 a.m.–2 p.m.A full list of changes can be found here.Providing an accurate number of tests taken at any given time is challenging, because samples are processed by multiple laboratories, including the State Laboratory of Public Health and LabCorp. Other locations may come online in the future.The county doesn’t have access to the number of tests LabCorp is processing each day, but it does track samples submitted to the State Lab. However, in both cases, positive results are reported to the local Public Health Division.Our Wake County Public Health team is reaching out to each positive case to assess their symptoms, gauge their health risks and provide guidance on self-isolating. Our staff ask that they stay home for at least seven days after the onset of symptoms and do not go out in public until they are symptom free for at least three days. Symptom free includes being fever free without the use of fever-reducing medications.Media should contact LabCorp for similar numbers from private sector tests.The county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Stay away from sick people and practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-issues-new-restrictions-to-help-slow-the-spread-of-covid-19/


On March 22, 2020

Wake County Issues New Restrictions to Help Slow the Spread of COVID-19On March 22, 2020In response to the rising number of positive cases of COVID-19, Wake County is putting new restrictions in place to help slow the spread of coronavirus and protect the local healthcare system from becoming overwhelmed.Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford today signed a new State of Emergency Declaration. The declaration requires some types of businesses to close, prohibit gatherings of 50 people or more, change visitation practices at nursing homes and restrict the use of playground equipment at local parks.“This is a challenging time, and it requires us to make difficult decisions to keep Wake County residents safe,” said Chairman Ford. “Our hope is that these new restrictions will maximize opportunities for the public to practice social distancing, which should help reduce the spread of COVID-19.”Restrictions specific to nursing homes and similar facilities go into effect immediately. All other restrictions go into effect at 8 a.m. on Monday, March 23. The new restrictions will last until April 30.They include:Closing fitness clubs, gyms, hair and nail salons, spas, tanning, massage, and tattoo salons, and other professional grooming services;Cancelling mass gatherings of 50 or more people (which includes both staff and patrons). This does not include organizations that provide critical services like hospitals, government operations and financial institutions. It also excludes retailers that provide essentials goods like grocery stores, pharmacies, pet stores and hardware stores;Requiring nursing homes, long-term care facilities and assisted living centers to cease group activities that don’t allow for social distancing. Residents can only have one adult visitor per day, unless it is an end-of-life situation, and the visitor must be screened for:fever of 100.4-degrees or higher,a cough anddifficulty breathing before they can enter the building; fever of 100.4-degrees or higher,a cough anddifficulty breathing before they can enter the building; Prohibiting the use of playground equipment at public and private parks. This does not include backyard playgrounds or other amenities such as greenways and walking trails; and​​​​​​Recommendations that retail businesses screen their employees and customers for fever and respiratory illness before they enter the facility and turn away those who are sick.“We are not at the point yet where we feel a stay-at-home order is necessary,” said Wake County Manager David Ellis. “We hope that these new restrictions will achieve our goals of limiting the spread of COVID-19 and protecting the capacity our healthcare system to serve our residents, so we don’t have to take that step.”The county has set up a dedicated phone line to address business-specific questions: 919-856-7420. In addition, additional FAQs have been included on the county’s COVID-19 webpage here.Wake County is working with the Greater Raleigh Chamber of Commerce and Wake County Economic Development to help communicate with the business community about these changes and share important resources to help support them during this challenging time.The new State of Emergency declaration is attached to this news release.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Stay away from sick people and practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/8





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-covid-19-cases-at-49/


On March 21, 2020

Wake County COVID-19 Cases at 49On March 21, 2020​Note: We want to share important information with you as efficiently as possible. Going forward, we will combine all COVID-19-related updates into one news release each day. This news release will be emailed to you around 5 p.m. We will send additional news releases in some circumstances.Wake County is investigating 17 new positive cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of positive test results in Wake County to 49.“This is the largest single-day increase in positive cases that we have seen yet, but it’s not unexpected, based on how the virus is spreading in our community,” said Dr. Jose Cabanas, Wake County EMS director/medical director who is overseeing public health operations today in the Emergency Operations Center. “Residents can help slow down the spread of COVID-19 and reduce the strain on our local healthcare system by continuing to practice social distancing and staying home when sick.”  Providing an accurate number of tests taken at any given time is challenging, because samples are processed by multiple laboratories, including the State Laboratory of Public Health and LabCorp. Other locations may come online in the future.The county doesn’t have access to the number of tests LabCorp is processing each day, but it does track samples submitted to the State Lab. However, in both cases, positive results are reported to the local Public Health Division.As of March 21 at 6 p.m., Wake County has 49 known positive cases of COVID-19. There are 59 people under investigation who were exposed to the virus and have developed symptoms. Of those, 47 people are waiting for test results; 12 are in the process of being tested.Our Wake County Public Health team is reaching out to each positive case to assess their symptoms, gauge their health risks and provide guidance on self-isolating. Our staff ask that they stay home for at least seven days after the onset of symptoms and do not go out in public until they are symptom free for at least three days. Symptom free includes being fever free without the use of fever-reducing medications.Media should contact LabCorp for similar numbers from private sector tests.The county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Stay away from sick people and practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. 


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-covid-19-cases-at-32/


On March 20, 2020

Wake County COVID-19 Cases at 32On March 20, 2020Note: We want to share important information with you as efficiently as possible. Going forward, we will combine all COVID-19-related updates into one news release each day. This news release will be emailed to you around 5 p.m. We will send additional news releases in some circumstances.Wake County is investigating seven new positive cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of positive test results in Wake County to 32.“We’ve been expecting a steady uptick in positive cases since our first case on March 3, so this is no surprise,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “Because of that, we’ve planned for managing the situation. As case numbers grow, so does the potential burden on our healthcare system. I strongly encourage everyone to practice social distancing to slow the virus’ spread, and to stay home if you are sick.”Providing an accurate number of tests taken at any given time is challenging, because samples are processed by multiple laboratories, including the State Laboratory of Public Health and LabCorp. Other locations may come online in the future.The county doesn’t have access to the number of tests LabCorp is processing each day, but it does track samples submitted to the State Lab. However, in both cases, positive results are reported to the local Public Health Division.As of March 20 at 5 p.m., Wake County has 32 known positive cases of COVID-19. There are 93 people under investigation who were exposed to the virus and have developed symptoms. Of those, 55 people are waiting for test results; 38 are in the process of being tested.Through contact tracing, Wake County has identified another 267 people who are being monitored, because they may have been exposed to the virus through close contact. The county will monitor them for two weeks to see if they develop symptoms. If they do, the county will test them for COVID-19 and recategorize them as “people under investigation.”Media should contact LabCorp for similar numbers from private sector tests.Since announcing that Wake County Public Libraries’ brick-and-mortar locations are closed through March 27, online access has been surging. More than 230 residents have self-registered for and claimed library cards, and more than 5,000 materials have been checked out online.“We’re thrilled that residents are turning to their libraries as we all practice social distancing,” said Ann Burlingame, deputy director of Wake County Public Libraries. “Many of us are working remotely while simultaneously trying to keep children occupied. What better way to accomplish the latter than by fighting boredom with a book! While we certainly miss the community our libraries provide, being able to access some of our most popular collections and events – like storytime – online can be a respite for families during this challenging time.”Everyone with a library card can access WCPL’s mobile app, which makes all online resources and services easily accessible.Learn more about WCPL’s online offerings here. Yesterday, public health officials learned that one of the latest cases attended The Millennium Tour 2020 at PNC Arena on Friday, March 13.Because the person was symptomatic during the concert, the Wake County Public Health Division has set up a special information phone line for people who attended the show or worked at PNC Arena that night and has developed fever (a temperature of 100.4 or higher), cough or shortness of breath. Affected Wake County residents can call 919-857-9375.The Raleigh/Wake City-County Bureau of Identification’s public Civic Fingerprinting office is closed through April 15.Wake County Solid Waste warns residents to expect delays on weekends when disposing of construction waste at its convenience centers. Staff are prioritizing household garbage collection. Residents are advised to come on a weekday or consider paying to dump at a private construction landfill.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Stay away from sick people and practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-covid-19-cases-at-25/


On March 19, 2020

​Wake County COVID-19 Cases at 25On March 19, 2020Note: We want to share important information with you as efficiently as possible. Going forward, we will combine all COVID-19-related updates into one news release each day. This news release will be emailed to you around 5 p.m. We will send additional news releases in some circumstances.Wake County is investigating three new positive cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of positive test results in Wake County to 25.One of the latest cases attended The Millennium Tour 2020 at PNC Arena on Friday, March 13. Because the person was symptomatic during the concert, the Wake County Public Health Division has set up a special information phone line for people who attended the show or worked at PNC Arena that night and have developed fever (a temperature of 100.4 or higher), cough or shortness of breath. Affected Wake County residents can call 919-857-9375.Public health officials are also using contact tracing to determine other locations of risk. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.“As we continue to learn about new positive cases in our community, it is imperative that social distancing recommendations be taken seriously,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “The short-term actions we take now, while they may be inconvenient, will help us slow the virus’ spread and reduce the burden on our healthcare system.”Providing an accurate number of tests taken at any given time is challenging, because samples are processed by multiple laboratories, including the State Laboratory of Public Health and LabCorp. Other locations may come online in the future.The county doesn’t have access to the number of tests LabCorp is processing each day, but does track samples submitted to the State Lab. However, in both cases, positive results are reported to the local Public Health Division.As of March 19 at 5 p.m., Wake County has 25 known positive cases of COVID-19. There are 77 people under investigation who were exposed to the virus and have developed symptoms. Of those, 56 people are waiting for test results; 21 are in the process of being tested.Through contact tracing, Wake County has identified another 253 people who are being monitored, because they may have been exposed to the virus through close contact. The county will monitor them for two weeks to see if they develop symptoms. If they do, the county will test them for COVID-19 and recategorize them as “people under investigation.”Media should contact LabCorp for similar numbers from private sector tests.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Stay away from sick people and practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/millennium-tour-2020-attendees-at-risk-of-exposure-to-covid-19/


On March 19, 2020

Millennium Tour 2020 Attendees at Risk of Exposure to COVID-19On March 19, 2020Attendees, employees asked to call special hotlineA Wake County resident who attended The Millennium Tour 2020 at PNC Arena on March 13 has tested positive for COVID-19. The individual was symptomatic while attending the event.The person was at the concert from 8:20 p.m. Friday, March 13, to midnight Saturday, March 14. The individual had floor seats in Section 5 but moved throughout the crowd during the show.“Because the crowd was so mobile, it would be very difficult determine who came within six feet of the affected person for 10 minutes or more,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “If you went to the show and spent time on the floor, you may be at risk of exposure.”The Wake County Public Health Division has set up a special information line for people who attended the show or worked at PNC Arena on March 13. Affected Wake County residents can call 919-857-9375.Wake County is also emailing anyone who bought tickets to the concert to inform them about the situation advise them on next steps.At this time, the county does not believe anyone at PNC Arena outside of the above-mentioned timeframe was at risk of contracting COVID-19.The Millennium Tour 2020 featured Omarion, Bow Wow, Ashanti and other early-2000s R&B and hip-hop artists. Show promoters have rescheduled upcoming tour dates in response to circumstances surrounding COVID-19.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services are also good resources for up-to-date, accurate information about this evolving situation.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/register-online-for-library-cards-and-access-an-array-of-digital-services/


On March 18, 2020

Register Online for Library Cards and Access an Array of Digital ServicesOn March 18, 2020It’s easier than ever to access online resources from Wake County Public Libraries—even while locations are closed in response to COVID-19.Residents without a library card can register online and receive a temporary card number and PIN that are good for 60 days. This temporary number allows you to use all WCPL’s online resources.“These are unprecedented times, and we want to do whatever we can to make things easier,” said Ann Burlingame, deputy director of Wake County Public Libraries. “From helping children learn while schools are closed to providing a bit of distraction for adults, our online resources provide something for everyone.” WCPL also offers a mobile app. The app puts all the resources and services the library offers at your fingertips.Online offerings include:Find and borrow a title with a tap. Get the Libby app for your phone or tablet. Meet Libby.Available Now eBooks: eBooks to download this minute.Children’s Available Now eBooks: Kids’ books to checkout from home, available immediately.Young Adult Available Now eBooks: YA books for the young or young at heart to access right away.Always Available Audio: 175 different audio books that are always ready.Readalongs: Fun, narrated books for young, aspiring readers.  MagazinesFlip through the digital pages of 50 different titles. You can peruse everything from Cosmo and Essence to Clean Eating and Yoga.Storytimes OnlineTalking, singing, reading, writing and playing—our online storytimes will help get your child ready to read.Video on DemandBrowse a large variety of curriculum-focused, streaming video titles including how-tos, documentaries and more.Heritage Quest: Research your family tree with this comprehensive treasury of American genealogical sources.Mango Languages: Learn a language or refresh your skills.Have a question about your account, materials, digital access or something else? AskWCPL, WCPL’s digital help desk, will continue assisting patrons via text, email, and online. You can also call most branches—contact information is available here.And as a reminder, WCPL is late fee free. If you have books checked out, just hang on to them until the libraries reopen. You will not be charged.More information is available here.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to help educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services are also good resources for up-to-date, accurate information about this evolving situation.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-covid-19-cases-at-22/


On March 18, 2020

Wake County COVID-19 Cases at 22On March 18, 2020Note: We want to share important information with you as efficiently as possible. Going forward, we will combine all COVID-19-related updates into one news release each day. This news release will be emailed to you around 5 p.m. We will send additional news releases in some circumstances.Wake County is investigating five new positive cases of COVID-19. This brings the total number of positive test results in Wake County to 22.Using contact tracing, the county is working to confirm who may have come in close contact with the affected people and what their risk of exposure might be. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.“We aren’t surprised that the number of positive test results in Wake County is increasing,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “While it’s important to track the data, it’s even more important to reinforce the social distancing message. By doing things like working from home and staying six feet away from others while running necessary errands, we can slow the spread of this virus.”Slowing the spread of COVID-19 will help reduce the burden on our healthcare system and better prepare to treat those who are most in need of urgent and emergent care.Providing an accurate number of tests taken at any given time is challenging, because samples are processed by multiple laboratories, including the State Laboratory of Public Health and LabCorp. Other locations may come online in the future.The county doesn’t have access to the number of tests LabCorp is processing each day, but does track samples submitted to the State Lab. However, in both cases, positive results are reported to the local Public Health Division.As of March 18 at 5 p.m., Wake County has 22 known positive cases of COVID-19. There are 82 people under investigation who were exposed to the virus and have developed symptoms. Of those, 70 test results are pending, and 12 people are in the process of being tested.Through contact tracing, Wake County has identified another 221 people who are being monitored, because they may have been exposed to the virus through close contact. The county will monitor them for two weeks to see if they develop symptoms. If they do, the county will test them for COVID-19 and recategorize them as “people under investigation.”Media should contact LabCorp for similar numbers from private sector tests.In addition to closing locations through March 27, Wake County Public Libraries will close all book returns and no longer accept book donations, starting tomorrow, March 19. There will be no penalty for keeping books until libraries reopen. While physical locations are closed, residents can still access WCPL’s services. Residents who don’t already have a library card can register online, and receive a temporary card number and PIN that are good for 60 days. This access will enable people to use all of WCPL’s online resources while still practicing social distancing.Everyone with a library card can access WCPL’s mobile app, which makes all online resources and services offered easily accessible.Learn more about WCPL’s online offerings here.Capital Area Workforce Development’s NCWorks Career Center is offering virtual appointments to those who need employment and training resources services or are experiencing joblessness as a result of COVID-19. You can learn more about accessing their services via phone or online here.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Stay away from sick people and practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-hospitals-collaborate-on-covid-19-response/


On March 17, 2020

Wake County, Hospitals Collaborate on COVID-19 ResponseOn March 17, 2020Goal: Keep emergency departments from getting overwhelmedWake County is working closely with local hospitals to create a coordinated community response to COVID-19. The goal of this collaborative effort is to prevent local emergency departments from becoming overwhelmed with people seeking COVID-19 testing.“We’ve seen hospitals in other countries and other states get flooded with symptomatic patients, and it created an environment ripe for COVID-19 transmission and negatively impacted the hospitals’ ability to treat seriously ill patients,” said Dr. Jose Cabanas, an emergency physician and Wake County EMS director/medical director. “We don’t want that to happen here, so we’re working with the hospitals to route people to the right resources for testing.”The county and the hospitals agree that unless you are critically ill, you should not go to the emergency department for care or COVID-19 testing. Instead, follow one of the paths below.These are current ways to seek care in Wake County, and we hope to expand these options further in the coming days.UNC Health patients with coronavirus symptoms should call their primary care provider’s office to determine if and where they should be tested for COVID-19. This may result in a referral to a UNC Health Respiratory Diagnostic Center or to a UNC Virtual Care center.UNC Health patients can also call a UNC Health Helpline at 1-888-850-2684 before visiting a doctor’s office or an urgent care location. Please note: This HelpLine is experiencing high volumes of calls.The current hours for UNC Health Respiratory Diagnostic Centers are 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 8 a.m. – 12 p.m. Saturday and Sunday.WakeMed opened its first Respiratory Diagnostic Center (RDC) on March 16. The WakeMed RDC is an appointment-only site for patients ages 18 and older who meet testing criteria. Patients must first call the WakeMed Health Help Line at 919-350-5200, between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., to connect with a provider for an initial phone evaluation. Only those who meet the criteria will be scheduled for an appointment for COVID-19 and flu testing.WakeMed Virtual Urgent Care can also help evaluate COVID-19 risks, assess symptoms and provide support by video to help you find the most appropriate level of care while minimizing exposure. You can be seen online 24/7 using a smartphone, tablet or computer without leaving home. Consults are available on-demand, and no appointment is necessary. To get started, visit wakemed.org/virtual-urgent-care or download the WakeMed All Access App.The Wake County Public Health Division will only test:Contacts of COVID-19 positive individuals; andPeople identified through the federal government’s screening process at airports as having traveled to a high-risk area.Primary healthcare providers should not refer patients to the health department for testing.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low in Wake County, the public health team encourages you to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 with these simple steps:Follow guidance on social distancing from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services.Refrain from visiting hospitals, senior care facilities or nursing homes.Wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-covid-19-cases-at-17/


On March 17, 2020

Wake County COVID-19 Cases at 17On March 17, 2020Note: We want to share important information with you as efficiently as possible. Going forward, we will combine all COVID-19-related updates into one news release each day. This news release will be emailed to you around 5 p.m. We will send additional news releases in some circumstances.Wake County is investigating two new positive cases of COVID-19. This brings the total number of positive test results in Wake County to 17.Using contact tracing, the county is working to confirm who may have come in close contact with the affected people and what their risk of exposure might be. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.“As with all the positive cases we’ve received to date, our public health team is creating a timeline of where these people may have been when they were symptomatic,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “That information will help us determine the risk level for those who may have been in close contact with the affected individuals.”Providing an accurate number of tests taken at any given time is challenging, because samples are processed by multiple laboratories, including the State Laboratory of Public Health and LabCorp. Other locations may come online in the future.The county doesn’t have access to the number of tests LabCorp is processing each day, but does track samples submitted to the State Lab. However, in both cases, positive results are reported to the local Public Health Division.As of March 17 at 5 p.m., Wake County has 17 cases of COVID-19. There are 68 people under investigation who were exposed to the virus and have developed symptoms. Of those, 45 test results are pending and 23 people are in the process of being tested. Through contact tracing, Wake County has identified another 214 people who are being monitored because they may have been exposed to the virus through close contact, defined as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more. Monitoring lasts two weeks to see if people develop symptoms. If symptoms develop, the county will test for COVID-19 and recategorize them as “people under investigation.”Media should contact LabCorp for similar numbers from private sector tests.Because people are encouraged to stay home and avoid crowded places, the county is sharing some ways that residents can access services without coming to our Human Services buildings.To apply for Medicaid, people have three options:You may apply online at epass.nc.gov.You may mail applications to: Wake County Human Services, P.O. Box 46833, Raleigh, N.C. 27620.You may apply by calling 919-212-7000.Medicaid questions can be emailed to FCMAintake@wakegov.com.To apply for food and nutrition services, people may:Apply online at epass.nc.gov.Mail applications to: Wake County Human Services, P.O. Box 46833, Raleigh, N.C. 27620Questions related to Food and Nutrition Services can be emailed to foodandnutrition@wakegov.com.If you need to speak to your case worker, call 919-212-7000.Most utility providers are not currently disconnecting service during the COVID-19 outbreak. However, you can obtain an application for energy assistance by calling 919-212-7000 or downloading an application here.To apply for assistance with childcare costs, email childcaresubsidy@wakegov.com. Questions about childcare subsidy can be answered by calling 919-212-7000.GoRaleigh, GoCary, GoTriangle, and GoWake Access are taking additional precautionary measures due to COVID-19.These measures include additional applications of commercial disinfectants, and spraying and wiping door handles, common areas and surfaces including handrails, fareboxes and seat backs. Hand sanitizer is available for bus operators and the public.Transit riders are encouraged to call the Regional Information Center at 919-485-RIDE with questions or visit GoTriangle’s updated information here.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Stay away from sick people and practice social distancing measures.Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish, a list of COVID-19-related closures and service changes, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-relocates-emergency-operations-center-to-follow-covid-19-safety-guidance/


On March 17, 2020

Wake County Relocates Emergency Operations Center to Follow COVID-19 Safety GuidanceOn March 17, 2020Wake County employees working in the Emergency Operations Center can now follow social distancing guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention after the county relocated its EOC over the weekend to a larger space. The additional room enables staff to sit six feet apart, which helps prevent the spread of germs.“We can’t do what we need to do to protect and inform our 1 million-plus residents if we get sick,” said Darshan Patel, EOC manager and Wake County Emergency Management team leader. “This move helps ensure the county employees staffing the EOC 12 hours a day stay healthy as we work through this challenging time.”Originally located in the basement of the old county courthouse, the EOC is now set up on the first floor of the Waverly F. Akins Office Building in the space previously occupied by the Wake County Board of Elections, pictured here.The new space allows employees to practice social distancing, which is advised by the CDC. Employees are now spread out over 11,000 square feet, as opposed to 1,100 square feet.It took Wake County’s General Services Administration and Information Services teams about two and a half days to perform the move, which was coordinated through the EOC’s logistics group. Staff relocated 40 workstations and a 25-seat call center—which included phones and computers—along with all the electrical and networking services. This is the first time Wake County has had to relocate the EOC, which has been in its original location since 1988.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services are also good resources for up-to-date, accurate information about this evolving situation.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-provides-guidance-to-healthcare-providers-public-about-covid-19-testing/


On March 16, 2020

Wake County Provides Guidance to Healthcare Providers, Public about COVID-19 TestingOn March 16, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division is working with its local healthcare providers to ensure they have and understand COVID-19 testing guidance. Our public health team has sent them written guidance that outlines the testing criteria.“This type of collaboration is critically important, because we can’t do this alone,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “Our partners play a key role in diagnosing people who have COVID-19, so we can isolate them and protect others from contracting coronavirus.”There are currently two paths for COVID-19 testing.Path #1: The Wake County Public Health Division will only test contacts of COVID-19 positive individuals and people who have been identified through the federal government’s screening at airports as having traveled to a high-risk area. Primary healthcare providers should not refer patients to the health department for testing.Path #2: A person has symptoms and contacts their primary healthcare provider or an urgent care center. Only seriously ill people who need hospitalization should be referred to a hospital for coronavirus testing.Once a person is identified as coming into close contact with someone who is positive for COVID-19 or as having traveled to a high-risk area, our public health team calls them and assesses their symptoms over the phone, using a set list of questions. Based on their responses, our team determines what the appropriate next steps include.If a patient is exhibiting symptoms such as fever, cough and shortness of breath and there is a clinical suspicion of COVID-19 infection, the healthcare provider should test the patient for flu.If the flu test results are positive, they do not need to be tested for COVID-19.If the flu test results are negative and the healthcare provider suspects COVID-19, the doctor should recommend the patient get tested for the coronavirus. The patient should self-quarantine at home until receiving the results.The patient should then be tested for COVID-19 by the healthcare provider at their facility. However, some urgent care centers or primary care providers may not be testing for COVID-19.A patient who is tested for coronavirus in the private sector will have their samples sent to LabCorp for processing.If the results are positive, Wake County public health staff will contact the patient, inform them of the results, place them in isolation and gather information on their movements before and after becoming symptomatic to gauge their risk of transmitting the disease to others. The person will not be let out of isolation until they test negative for COVID-19 twice, but the tests must be conducted more than 24 hours apart.If the results are negative, the patient may be released from quarantine and can follow up as needed for additional care.Providing an accurate number of tests taken at any given time is very difficult, because there are two entities – the state lab and LabCorp – processing the samples.The county doesn’t have access to the numbers of tests LabCorp is processing each day. The county only has information on the samples its public health team sends to the state lab each day for processing and how many results it received each day from the state lab.“We understand that the public wants to know what our testing picture looks like,” said Dr. McDonald. “Although it’s challenging to provide accurate point-in-time figures for the number of tests in process and the number of tests completed daily, we’re committed to sharing the best information available to us to help our residents better understand our COVID-19 response.”As of March 16 at 3 p.m., Wake County Public Health has submitted 65 tests for coronavirus, and has received 44 back. Of those, 15 were positive and 29 were negative for COVID-19. The county is still waiting on the results of 21 tests.Media should contact LabCorp for similar numbers from private sector tests. Public health staff experience a two-day delay in getting those figures.Regarding testing capacity, based on supplies from the state and the private sector, the county currently has enough kits to test anyone deemed at risk of exposure to COVID-19.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit the county’s bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services are also good resources for up-to-date, accurate information about this evolving situation.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/9





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-covid-19-cases-at-15/


On March 16, 2020

Wake County COVID-19 Cases at 15On March 16, 2020Note: We want to share important information with you as efficiently as possible. Going forward, we will combine all COVID-19-related updates into one news release each day. This news release will be emailed to you around 5 p.m. We will send additional news releases in some circumstances.The Wake County Public Health Division is investigating one new positive case of COVID-19. This brings the total number of positive cases in Wake County to 15.Using contact tracing, the county is working to confirm who may have come in close contact with the affected person and what their risk of exposure might be. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.“Our public health team is working to create a timeline for this resident, so we know where they went and when,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “Once we have that information, we can evaluate the level of risk of those who came in close contact with them.” Providing an accurate number of tests taken at any given time is challenging, because sample are processed by multiple laboratories, including the State Laboratory of Public Health, LabCorp and UNC. Other locations may come online in the future.The county doesn’t have access to the number of tests LabCorp is processing each day, but does track samples submitted to the State Lab. However, in both cases, positive results are reported to the local Public Health Division.“We understand that the public wants to know what our testing picture looks like,” said Dr. McDonald. “Although it’s challenging to provide accurate point-in-time figures for the number of tests in process and the number of tests completed daily, we’re committed to sharing the best information available to help our residents better understand the situation and our response efforts.”As of March 16 at 3 p.m., Wake County Public Health has submitted 65 tests for coronavirus, and has received 44 back. Of those, 15 were positive and 29 were negative for COVID-19. The county is still waiting on the results of 21 tests.Media should contact LabCorp for similar numbers from private sector tests.With the announcement of school closures through at least March 27, many residents have reached out with concerns about food access options throughout Wake County during these unprecedented times.Thanks to a partnership with Wake County Public Schools, the North Carolina Cooperative Extension’s Wake County Center and local partners, a plan is now in place to ensure that families will have access to healthy meals while school is not in session.Families can visit one of 27 schools and community centers serving as food distribution sites starting Tuesday, March 17. Volunteers will hand out food at the curb, and everything will be in safe and sanitized containers to minimize safety concerns. The Inter-Faith Food Shuttle Mobile Market will offer food to all community members at several locations.More details are available here.Social distancing is a public health strategy that prevents close contact between people with the aim to reduce opportunities for disease transmission.Tactics that people can use to support social distancing include maintaining six feet of space between each other when in public and avoiding events with large numbers of people. The goal is to slow the spread of COVID-19 so it is contained as much as possible and there’s less strain on our healthcare system to care for sick people. More information and further explanation are available here.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/some-lego-convention-attendees-at-risk-of-exposure-to-covid-19/


On March 15, 2020

Some Lego Convention Attendees at Risk of Exposure to COVID-19On March 15, 2020A Wake County resident who attended the BrickUniverse Lego Fan Convention at the Raleigh Convention Center on March 8 has tested positive for COVID-19. The individual was symptomatic while attending the event, which attracts hundreds of people.“Because the crowd was so large and so mobile, we have no way to identify who came in close contact with this person during the Lego convention,” said Dr. Jose Cabanas, the county’s EMS Director/Medical Director who is overseeing public health operations today in the Emergency Operations Center. “We need the community’s help to determine who was potentially at risk of exposure to the virus.”The Wake County Public Health Division asks anyone who was at the event from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. on March 8 to call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044.Our call takers will:Confirm that the caller was at the event on March 8 from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.;Ask if the caller is experiencing symptoms such as cough, fever or shortness of breath; andGather the caller’s contact information.A member of the public health team will then contact the caller to go through a detailed list of questions. This process will enable our public health staff to assess the caller’s symptoms.At this time, the county does not believe anyone at the Lego convention outside of the 2 p.m.-to-4 p.m. timeframe on March 8 was at risk of contracting COVID-19.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services are also good resources for up-to-date, accurate information about this evolving situation.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/total-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-wake-county-at-14/


On March 15, 2020

Total Number of COVID-19 Cases in Wake County at 14On March 15, 2020Note: We want to share important information with you as efficiently as possible. Going forward, we will combine all COVID-19-related updates into one news release each day. This news release will be emailed to you around 5 p.m. We will send additional news releases in some circumstances.The Wake County Public Health Division is investigating three additional positive cases of COVID-19. This brings the total number of positive cases in Wake County to 14, as of Sunday, March 15.Using contact tracing, the county is working to confirm who may have come in close contact with the affected people and what their risk of exposure might be. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.Wake County encourages residents to follow the recommendations of the CDC and North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services.“Everyone can play a part in slowing the spread of COVID-19,” said Dr. Jose Cabanas, the county’s EMS director/medical director who is overseeing public health operations today in the Emergency Operations Center. “One of the most important things residents can do is practice social distancing—avoid crowded places and limit your contact with others.”Through conversations with the recently affected individuals, the county has assembled a timeline of their movements prior to entering isolation at home.The affected individuals started showing symptoms of COVID-19 between March 6 and 11. The CDC says COVID-19 is most likely to be transmitted when affected people are symptomatic.On March 8, a resident flew to Raleigh-Durham International Airport.Also on March 8, a resident attended the BrickUniverse Lego Fan Convention at the Raleigh Convention Center from 2–4 p.m. Anyone who was at the event during that time period is asked to call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044.Public health staff believe there is little risk to anyone who came in contact with the affected people at any other locations since they were not symptomatic or in close contact with others. Since these are not locations of concern, Wake County is not releasing their names.If public health officials determine you are at increased risk of exposure to COVID-19, they will contact you directly. If a member of our team has not contacted you and you do not have any symptoms, you do not need to quarantine yourself or take precautions beyond washing your hands, covering your cough, and staying home from school or work if you feel sick.The public health team is assessing the risk of each person who was in close contact with any affected individuals and determining if quarantine and testing for COVID-19 are warranted.The specific steps they take include:Interviewing the person to assess their exposure risk level. This includes understanding how close they were to the symptomatic people.Based on that assessment, public health staff determine which additional public health activities are required, such as temperature and symptom checks.If the person is put in quarantine and remains asymptomatic 14 days after exposure, they will be released from quarantine.If the person in quarantine develops symptoms, public health staff would assess the need for testing them for COVID-19.If the result is presumptive positive, the person is put in isolation. Once they become asymptomatic, they require two negative tests at least 24 hours apart to be released from isolation.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Many people are reaching out asking how they can help fight food insecurity while Wake County Public Schools are closed. The county is working on a joint effort with its partners to meet the needs of our most vulnerable residents during this time and will share more information as plans are finalized.In the meantime, both the Food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina and Inter-Faith Food Shuttle have information available on how you can help them respond to this changing situation.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-public-libraries-park-centers-to-close-monday/


On March 15, 2020

Wake County Public Libraries, Park Centers to Close MondayOn March 15, 2020Wake County Public Libraries and facilities at county parks will close tomorrow, Monday, March 16, in the interest of the safety of our visitors and staff. They will remain closed through March 27 when county staff will reassess the situation.“The health and safety of our library and park staff and the people who visit our locations remain our No. 1 priority,” said Frank Cope, director of Community Services for Wake County. “We will continue to monitor conditions and will resume regular services and programs when it is deemed appropriate by public health officials.”The closure only affects offices and centers at Wake County Parks, Recreation and Open Space locations. Park and preserve grounds will remain open, but visitors are asked to practice social distancing. View a list of county parks here, and use our Park Locator to find the right one for you.WCPL’s book reserve system and interlibrary loan services will be suspended while the library is closed. WCPL will continue to provide access to ebooks, electronic resources and our online storytime series, “Click, Watch, Learn, Storytime at the Library,” which is available here. In this time of uncertainty, we encourage you to enjoy the books you have throughout this period and remember that Wake County Public Libraries is #LateFeeFree.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-announces-10th-covid-19-positive-case/


On March 14, 2020

Wake County Announces 10th COVID-19 Positive CaseOn March 14, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division received word on Saturday, March 14, of another resident who tested positive for COVID-19. This is the 10th positive in Wake County.The person, who is a Wake County Public School teacher at Fuquay-Varina Elementary School, began feeling ill on Tuesday, March 10. Wake County Public Health Division is currently contacting anyone who may have come into close contact with the teacher, in order to assess exposure risk.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.The Wake County Public Health team is continuing to develop a timeline of additional places the individual may have been while symptomatic, with urgent attention to school contacts. More details on location of concern will be provided as these locations are developed.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 locally remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces – especially ones that are touched frequently – using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue, throw the tissue in the trash and wash your hands.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-announces-11th-covid-19-positive-case/


On March 14, 2020

Wake County Announces 11th COVID-19 Positive CaseOn March 14, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division has confirmed that a Wake County resident has tested positive for COVID-19. This makes the 11th positive test result in Wake County. The patient remains at home in isolation.“We are evaluating every case that comes and focusing on contact tracing to reduce the risk of exposure to the community,” Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “By establishing a detailed timeline, we can trace their movements and better understand who was within six feet of the individual for more than 10 minutes, which we consider to be close contact.”The affected individual started showing symptoms on March 2 and public health is paying close attention to where they visited during that time.Based on these conversations, the public health team will determine if quarantine and testing for COVID-19 for others is warranted.The individual’s family has also been quarantined for 14 days, where they will remain until the patient has two negative COVID-19 tests.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County continues to work to keep you updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-continues-investigating-timeline-of-ninth-presumptive-positive-covid-19-case/


On March 14, 2020

Wake County Continues Investigating Timeline of Ninth Presumptive Positive COVID-19 CaseOn March 14, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division continues to investigate who may have been in close contact with a resident who tested presumptively positive for COVID-19 on March 14. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is running a second test to confirm these results.The CDC defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for at least 10 minutes.“From the procedures we’ve put in place for other presumptive positive cases, we are able to more efficiently track the movements of the individual to identify exposure risks,” said Wake County Medical Director, Dr. Kim McDonald. “We are actively reaching out and assessing those who have been in close contact with this person to support our efforts to contain the virus within our community.”Through conversations with the patient, the county has assembled a timeline of their movements prior to entering isolation at home.The individual attended the Biogen conference in Boston, Massachusetts, during the last week in February. More than two dozen conference attendees in other states have tested presumptive positive for COVID-19.They started showing mild symptoms on Feb. 24. The CDC says COVID-19 is most likely to be transmitted when the patient is symptomatic.During this time, the patients visited several locations, but those that have the potential for increased exposure include:Feb. 24 & March 2Biogen, 5000 Davis Drive, Research Triangle Park.The individual worked remotely for the majority of time after the onset of symptoms but did visit Biogen facilities periodically between these dates. Wake County continues to work with the company to identify any employees who were in close contact.Feb. 29Optimus Park Raleigh – Early Voting locationThe individual went to vote early in the Primary Election at Optimus Park. Wake County Public Health has the names of the elections officials and are working with them to further assess the risk of exposure at this location. March 2 – 5Traveled to and returned from Logan International Airport from Raleigh-Durham International Airport. If you were on a flight and determined to be at risk, a public health official from The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will contact you directly.Public health officials are working to identify people who may have been at risk at the above locations. They believe there is little risk to anyone who came in contact with the patient at any other locations since they were not symptomatic or in close contact with others. Because these are not locations of concern, Wake County is not releasing their names. The public health team is assessing the risk of each person who was in close contact with the patient and determining if quarantine and testing for COVID-19 are warranted.The specific steps they take include:Interviewing the person to assess their exposure risk level. This includes understanding how close they were to the symptomatic patient.Based on that assessment, public health staff determine which additional public health activities are required, such as temperature and symptom checks.If the person is put in quarantine and remains asymptomatic 14 days after exposure, they will be released from quarantine.If the person in quarantine develops symptoms, public health staff would assess the need for testing them for COVID-19.If the result is presumptive positive, the person is put in isolation. Once they become asymptomatic, they require two negative tests at least 24 hours apart to be released from isolation.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County continues to work to keep you updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-declares-state-of-emergency-in-response-to-covid-19/


On March 13, 2020

Wake County Declares State of Emergency in Response to COVID-19On March 13, 2020Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford today declared a State of Emergency in response to COVID-19. The county has received eight presumptive positive test results to date from the state lab in Raleigh.“Although the risk of contracting the novel coronavirus remains low in Wake County, I signed a State of Emergency declaration today as a proactive move to ensure we have the flexibility we need to respond to this ever-changing situation in the days and weeks ahead,” said Chairman Ford. “This is largely an administrative action and should not heighten fears or fuel panic among our residents.”The State of Emergency declaration signed by Chairman Ford will enable the county to utilize liability coverage and swiftly activate any emergency plans or mutual aid agreements and waive internal purchasing policies, so the county can react to any future issues with speed and agility. Having the document already in place also helps the county coordinate with its municipal partners on administrative needs.The declaration does not change the current recommendations from the Wake County Public Health Division and the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services regarding schools. They continue to advise against closing schools, because children have not been identified as a high-risk population for COVID-19. Both the state and the county do recommend, however, that schools consider canceling or postponing large events, such as field trips or school assemblies.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit the county’s bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services are also good resources for up-to-date, accurate information about this evolving situation.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-register-of-deeds-continues-to-provide-all-services/


On March 13, 2020

Wake County Register of Deeds continues to provide all servicesOn March 13, 2020Raleigh, NC – Wake County Register of Deeds Charles P. Gilliam issued the following statement today about ROD office operations concerning the COVID-19 Coronavirus situation.The Wake County Register of Deeds office continues to provide all services.For the safety and convenience of all, the Register of Deeds strongly encourages the use of our existing on-line services:Customers needing certified copies of birth, death or marriage certificates should make a purchase on-line or mail-in printed request. The certificates will be mailed to you.All online orders can be placed at https://wakerod.permitium.com/rodMail-in printed request forms can be found here:http://www.wakegov.com/rod/vitalrecords/Pages/certifiedcopy.aspxAll online orders can be placed at https://wakerod.permitium.com/rodMail-in printed request forms can be found here:http://www.wakegov.com/rod/vitalrecords/Pages/certifiedcopy.aspxIf you are getting married within the next 60 days, it is highly recommended that you physically come into the office immediately to obtain a marriage license. The best practice is to complete the marriage license application online before arriving at the Register of Deeds office. The online marriage license form is located here:http://www.wakegov.com/rod/help/vital/marriage/Pages/application.aspxLawyers, financial institutions and others with eRecording accounts should continue to use that service. For customers with e-Recording capabilities but who historically have preferred to submit instruments in person, it is recommended that you enroll to e-Record.The office is currently open for regular business such as in-person submissions of instruments for recording, for in-person issuance of vital records, and for other services, but that availability could change due to circumstances beyond the control of the Register of Deeds.If you are ill or have reason to believe you might have been exposed to the virus, please use our online services to fulfill your requests and do not visit the Wake County Justice Center.Please check the Register of Deeds webpage: www.wakegov.com/rod or our Facebook page www.facebook.com/WakeRegisterOfDeeds/ for daily updates.Communications with additional details are being sent to business customers including funeral homes, surveyors, and e-Recorders.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-announces-new-covid-19-presumptive-positive-case/


On March 13, 2020

​Wake County Announces New COVID-19 Presumptive Positive CaseOn March 13, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division received word from the state lab this evening that a Wake County resident has tested presumptive positive for COVID-19. It is the ninth presumptive positive test result in Wake County.The case is related to the existing cluster of positive patients tested earlier this week from Biogen.“We are working to quickly establish a timeline of their movements, so we can effectively identify places they visited and determine if anyone was at increased risk of exposure,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “We will reach out to those who came in close contact with this person to assess their condition and take appropriate next steps.”The affected individual started showing symptoms on Feb. 24. The Wake County Public Health team will develop a timeline of what locations they visited and when – paying close attention to where they visited when they began showing symptoms.Based on these conversations, the public health team will assess who was in close contact with the patient and determine if quarantine and testing for COVID-19 are warranted. The CDC defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the infected patients for 10 minutes or more.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County continues to work to keep you updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our bilingual COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/news-releases/page/10





Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-resident-self-isolated-to-avoid-spreading-covid-19/


On March 12, 2020

Wake County Resident Self-Isolated to Avoid Spreading COVID-19On March 12, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division determined the resident who tested presumptive positive for COVID-19 on March 11 avoided becoming a risk to the public by effectively self-isolating.“This is a perfect example of how people should act when they begin to feel sick,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “If you start to feel sick, stay home, get some rest and avoid having close contact with your family members.”Through contact tracing, Wake County confirmed the person came in close contact with the traveler from Indiana who visited Biogen in Raleigh last week and, upon returning home, tested presumptive positive for COVID-19. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.On the evening of Thursday, March 5, the person began feeling feverish and developed a sore throat and cough.Since March 6, the person has remained at home in isolation and is doing well. Because the patient self-isolated, public health staff believe there is little risk the person exposed others to the virus.On March 11, Wake County received notice from the state lab that the person had tested presumptive positive for COVID-19. The case brought the total number of presumptive positive test results in Wake County to seven.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 locally remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces – especially ones that are touched frequently – using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue, throw the tissue in the trash and wash your hands.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-resident-tests-presumptive-positive-for-covid-19-following-visit-to-doctors-office/


On March 12, 2020

Wake County Resident Tests Presumptive Positive for COVID-19 Following Visit to Doctor’s OfficeOn March 12, 2020Wake County has learned today a resident tested presumptive positive for COVID-19 at a private laboratory following a visit to the doctor’s office. This brings the total number of presumptive positive test results in Wake County to eight.Through contact tracing, Wake County has determined the person did not come into close contact with anyone, and there is little risk the person exposed others to the virus. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.“The doctor’s office and the patient handled this situation very well,” Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald said. “The patient wore a mask and was kept away from other patients during the visit, and the medical staff wore the proper personal protective equipment.”The person began feeling ill early in the morning on Tuesday, March 10, and visited a private medical provider later that afternoon. The doctor’s office sent a test for COVID-19 to LabCorp for analysis, and the patient began home isolation.The patient remains at home in isolation.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 locally remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces – especially ones that are touched frequently – using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue, throw the tissue in the trash and wash your hands.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services are also good resources for up-to-date, accurate information about this evolving situation.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-recommends-the-public-avoid-visiting-facilities-that-serve-people-at-high-risk-of-covid-19/


On March 11, 2020

Wake County Recommends the Public Avoid Visiting Facilities that Serve People at High Risk of COVID-19On March 11, 2020To help prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Wake County Public Health Division recommends the public avoid visiting residential establishments for people at higher risk for severe illness – such as nursing homes, independent and assisted living facilities, correctional facilities and facilities that care for medically vulnerable children.High risk populations include adults over 65 years, people with weakened immune systems, and those with underlying health conditions such as heart disease, lung disease or diabetes.“We can all help reduce the risk for our loved ones,” Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald said. “For everyone’s safety, we’re asking people to avoid visits and take advantage of technology, such as video calling, instead of making a visit in person.”Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044.The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-resident-tests-presumptive-positive-for-covid-19/


On March 11, 2020

Wake County Resident Tests Presumptive Positive for COVID-19On March 11, 2020Wake County has received notice from the state lab on Wednesday, March 11, that another resident has tested presumptive positive for COVID-19. This brings the total number of presumptive positive test results in Wake County to seven.“This is not a surprise,” said Wake County Medical Director Dr. Kim McDonald. “As we track the movements of the people already affected by COVID-19, it’s likely that more individuals will test presumptively positive for the virus.”The Wake County Public Health Division is currently creating a timeline of where this most recent case went and when – paying particular attention to places visited when they became symptomatic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says that people are at highest risk of exposure to COVID-19 when the affected person is showing flu-like symptoms.The county can confirm that this affected individual came in close contact with the traveler from Indiana who visited Biogen in Raleigh last week and, upon returning home, tested presumptive positive for COVID-19. The CDC defines “close contact” as being with six feet of the patient for 10 minutes or more.The affected person is currently in isolation at home and is doing well.The timeline will help our public health staff determine who is at increased risk of exposure to COVID-19 from this patient.If you are at increased risk, our public health team will contact you directly. If a member of our team does not contact you and you do not have any symptoms, you do not need to quarantine yourself or take precautions beyond washing your hands, covering your cough, and staying home from school or work if you feel sick.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 locally remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces – especially ones that are touched frequently – using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue, throw the tissue in the trash and wash your hands.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents in English and in Spanish. You can also email us questions at covid19.questions@wakegov.com, or you can call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. The county is also sharing important information on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-continues-investigating-possible-exposure-to-five-cases-of-covid-19/


On March 10, 2020

Wake County Continues Investigating Possible Exposure to Five Cases of COVID-19On March 10, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division continues to investigate who was potentially exposed to five residents who tested presumptively positive for COVID-19 on March 9. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is running a second test to confirm these results.“Our public health team has diligently created a timeline for each affected person, so we know where they went and when,” said Chris Kippes, the Wake County Public Health Division director. “We’re actively using that information to determine who may have come in close contact with the affected individuals and reaching out to them now, so we can evaluate their risk of exposure.”The CDC defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for at least 10 minutes.Through conversations with the patients, the county has assembled a timeline of their movements prior to entering isolation at home.All five people attended the Biogen conference in Boston, Massachusetts, during the last week of February. Dozens of conference attendees in other states have tested presumptive positive for COVID-19.The affected individuals started showing symptoms of COVID-19 between Feb. 29 and March 3. The CDC says COVID-19 is most likely to be transmitted when affected people are symptomatic.During that time, the affected individuals visited several locations. Wake County is only sharing the names of the places these people visited where there was an increased risk of public exposure.They include:Feb. 29One individual went to vote early in the Primary Election at Millbrook Exchange Community Center in Raleigh. Wake County Public Health has the names of the elections officials and are working with them to further assess the risk of exposure at this location. March 2–5Multiple people went to work at the Biogen offices in the Research Triangle Park while showing symptoms. Our public health staff are working with the company to assess the risk of exposure at their facility.March 2–6Multiple traveled between Raleigh-Durham International Airport and Boston, and Boston and RDU. If you were on a flight and determined to be at risk, a public health official will contact you directly.March 4One person ate at Zest Café & Home Art on 8831 Six Forks Road in Raleigh.Public health staff believe there is little risk to anyone who came in contact with the people at any other locations since they were not symptomatic or in close contact with others. Since these are not locations of concern, Wake County is not releasing their names. If public health officials determine you are at increased risk of exposure to COVID-19, they will contact you directly. If a member of our team has not contacted you and you do not have any symptoms, you do not need to quarantine yourself or take precautions beyond washing your hands, covering your cough, and staying home from school or work if you feel sick.The public health team is assessing the risk of each person who was in close contact with any affected individuals and determining if quarantine and testing for COVID-19 are warranted.The specific steps they take include:Interviewing the person to assess their exposure risk level. This includes understanding how close they were to the symptomatic people.Based on that assessment, public health staff determine which additional public health activities are required, such as temperature and symptom checks.If the person is put in quarantine and remains asymptomatic 14 days after exposure, they will be released from quarantine.If the person in quarantine develops symptoms, public health staff would assess the need for testing them for COVID-19.If the result is presumptive positive, the person is put in isolation. Once they become asymptomatic, they require two negative tests at least 24 hours apart to be released from isolation.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19. You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/statement-from-wake-county-board-of-commissioners-chairman-greg-ford-and-vice-chair-vickie-adamson-on-countys-covid-19-response/


On March 9, 2020

Statement from Wake County Board of Commissioners Chairman Greg Ford and Vice Chair Vickie Adamson on County’s COVID-19 ResponseOn March 9, 2020As your elected representatives, it is important that we share with you the latest information available on what your county government is doing to protect the residents of Wake County and help prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus.We have the highest confidence in our county administration to manage this evolving situation in collaboration with our federal, state and local partners. The Board of Commissioners remains committed to supporting efforts to protect our fellow citizens.Here are just some of the steps the county has taken to date:Our Emergency Management and Public Health Divisions are leading a coordinated county-wide response along with our municipal and community partners and their state counterparts. The focus of these efforts is to:Contain the spread of the virus through proactive communications and prevention efforts;Investigate all potential situations in which a member of the public may have been exposed to an infected individual; andShare the latest, most accurate and relevant information with the public (to the extent that it doesn’t violate an individual’s privacy or interfere with our investigations).Contain the spread of the virus through proactive communications and prevention efforts;Investigate all potential situations in which a member of the public may have been exposed to an infected individual; andShare the latest, most accurate and relevant information with the public (to the extent that it doesn’t violate an individual’s privacy or interfere with our investigations).To provide the latest information to the public, we’ve established a COVID-19 section and FAQs on our website, found at: http://www.wakegov.com/covid19. This page is frequently updated as new information and guidance comes to light.County Manager Ellis has instituted twice-daily staff briefings, which provide the Manager’s Office, Public Health, Communications and Emergency Management staff to receive the latest updates on any cases within our community.Along with opening our Emergency Operations Center, we have established a hotline and call center to respond to calls and emails coming into the Public Health Division. If you have specific questions about COVID-19 and your risk, you can email covid19.questions@wakegov.com or call 919-856-7044. We have added additional and more stringent cleaning procedures in high-contact areas of county facilities, and we’ve added sanitizing stations in county buildings.The Communications Office continues to field extensive requests from the media for statements, interviews and speaking engagements. We have activated our Joint Information System process, which enables staff to quickly disseminate information and collect requests from our municipalities and community partners such as the Raleigh-Durham International Airport and the Wake County Public School System. If you traveled to an area impacted by COVID-19 or you believe you’ve been exposed to someone with COVID-19 and you are having flu-like symptoms:Contact your doctor. Before you go to a doctor’s office or emergency room, call ahead and explain your symptoms and/or recent travel.Avoid contact with others.Do not travel and avoid public places.And we can all take practical, common-sense steps now to safeguard ourselves and those around us:Do not go to work or public places while sick. Do not take sick children to school or childcare.Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.COVID-19 is a fluid situation, and our response continues to evolve. Through these steps and many others that our staff and partners are taking, Wake County is engaged and prepared to respond as needed.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-begins-investigation-of-five-people-with-covid-19/


On March 9, 2020

Wake County Begins Investigation of Five People with COVID-19On March 9, 2020Today, the Wake County Public Health Division learned that five people who live in Wake County have tested presumptive positive for COVID-19. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is running a second test to confirm these results.“These new cases bring the total count of presumptive positive cases to six in Wake County,” said Chris Kippes, Wake County Public Health Division director. “All six individuals are in isolation at their respective homes.”Now that these patients have tested presumptive positive, the county’s contact tracing staff is having conversations with each patient to assemble a timeline of their movements prior to entering isolation at home.Wake County is aware that these five people attended the same Biogen corporate conference in Boston, Mass. during the last week of February. More than two dozen conference attendees in other states have tested presumptive positive for COVID-19.The public health team is assessing the risk of each person who was in close contact with the patients and determining if quarantine and testing for COVID-19 are warranted. The CDC defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the infected patients for 10 minutes or more.The specific steps they take include:Interviewing the person to assess their exposure risk level. This includes understanding how close they were to the symptomatic patient.Based on that assessment, public health staff determine which additional public health activities are required, such as temperature and symptom checks.If the person is put in quarantine and remains asymptomatic 14 days after exposure, they will be released from quarantine.If the person in quarantine develops symptoms, public health staff would assess the need for testing them for COVID-19.If the result is presumptive positive, the person is put in isolation. Once they become asymptomatic, they require two negative tests at least 24 hours apart to be released from isolation.If you have a known increased risk of exposure to COVID-19, a member of the Wake County Public Health Division will contact you directly. If a member of the public health team has not contacted you and you do not have any symptoms, you do not need to quarantine yourself.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.If you have general questions about COVID-19 in Wake County, call our COVID-19 information line at 919-856-7044. If you have emergent health concerns related to COVID-19, you can call our communicable disease line at 919-404-7575.Wake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services are also good resources for up-to-date, accurate information about this evolving situation.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/durham-wake-counties-investigate-possible-exposure-to-new-covid-19-case/


On March 9, 2020

Durham, Wake Counties Investigate Possible Exposure to New COVID-19 CaseOn March 9, 2020The Durham County Department of Public Health and the Wake County Public Health Division are currently investigating who was potentially exposed to an Indiana resident who traveled to both counties last week and has now tested presumptively positive for COVID-19. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is running a second test to confirm these results.“The Indiana State Department of Health notified us last night about the test results and provided us with a report on where this person went while showing symptoms of COVID-19,” said Rod Jenkins, Durham County Public Health Department director. “Right now, we’re following the patient’s path – trying to determine when and where people may have come in close contact with the patient.”The CDC defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for at least 10 minutes.Using the timeline provided by the state of Indiana, the counties are mapping this person’s movements prior to returning home.On March 1, the patient flew from Indiana to Raleigh-Durham International Airport.On March 2, the patient started showing upper respiratory symptoms while at work at Biogen’s Research Triangle Park, North Carolina location, which is currently the only known location of potentially high-risk of exposure.The CDC says COVID-19 is most likely to be transmitted when the patient is symptomatic. Therefore, public health officials believe there is little risk to anyone who came into contact with the patient prior to March 2, because the person was not showing symptoms.On March 6, the person drove back home to Indiana.Prior to visiting Durham and Wake counties, the patient attended a corporate conference in Boston, Mass. during the last week of February. More than two dozen other conference attendees have also tested presumptive positive for COVID-19.“If you have a known increased risk of exposure to COVID-19, a county public health staff member will contact you directly,” said Chris Kippes, Wake County Public Health Division director. “If we have not contacted you and you do not have any symptoms, you do not need to quarantine yourself or take precautions beyond washing your hands, covering your cough, and staying home from school or work if you feel sick.”The public health teams are assessing the risk of each person who was in close contact with the patient and determining if quarantine and testing for COVID-19 are warranted.The specific steps they take include:Interviewing the person to assess their exposure risk level. This includes understanding how close they were to the symptomatic patient.Based on that assessment, public health staff determine which additional public health activities are required, such as temperature and symptom checks.If the person is put in quarantine and remains asymptomatic 14 days after exposure, they will be released from quarantine.If the person in quarantine develops symptoms, public health staff would assess the need for testing them for COVID-19.If the result is presumptive positive, the person is put in isolation. Once they become asymptomatic, they require two negative tests at least 24 hours apart to be released from isolation.Although your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, both counties encourage you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Durham and Wake counties have made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.In Durham County, visit the dcopublichealth.org COVID-19 webpage to learn more about how Durham County and the North Carolina Department for Health and Human Services are responding to COVID-19. Here, you will also find tips for staying healthy, informational graphics, and links to more information from credible sources. Durham County will also continue to add COVID-19 updates on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. In Wake County, you can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. Wake County is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/wake-county-continues-investigating-possible-exposure-to-covid-19/


On March 6, 2020

​Wake County Continues Investigating Possible Exposure to COVID-19On March 6, 2020The Wake County Public Health Division continues to investigate who was potentially exposed to a local resident who tested presumptively positive for COVID-19 on March 3. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is running a second test to confirm these results.“Our Communicable Disease team has worked with the patient to determine where this person went while showing symptoms of COVID-19,” said Chris Kippes, the Wake County Public Health Division director. “We’ve tracked the patient’s path, and at this time, our focus is on the people who came in close contact with the patient at so∙ca. All other locations have been ruled out as places of further public health concern.”The CDC defines “close contact” as being within six feet of the patient for at least 10 minutes.Patient TimelineThrough conversations with the patient, the county has assembled a timeline of this person’s movements prior to entering isolation at home.On Feb. 22, the patient returned to North Carolina from Washington.The patient did not start showing symptoms of COVID-19 until Feb. 26. The CDC says COVID-19 is most likely to be transmitted when the patient is symptomatic.Therefore, public health staff believe there is little risk to anyone who came in contact with the patient at any location prior to Feb. 26, because the person was not showing symptoms. Since these are not locations of concern, Wake County is not releasing their names. On Feb. 29, the patient dined at so∙ca.On March 1, the patient contacted their healthcare provider. On March 2, the healthcare provider called the N.C. Department of Public Health, which notified the Wake County Public Health Division. County staff then instructed the patient to self-isolate and arranged testing. On March 3, the presumptive positive test result for COVID-19 was received.The only location that county public health staff have determined had a risk of exposure is so∙ca. As the patient dined there, others came within six feet of the individual for more than 10 minutes, making them at increased risk of exposure to COVID-19.Risk Assessment“If you have a known increased risk of exposure to COVID-19, a member of the Wake County Public Health Division will contact you directly,” said Kippes. “If a member of our team has not contacted you and you do not have any symptoms, you do not need to quarantine yourself or take precautions beyond washing your hands, covering your cough, and staying home from school or work if you feel sick.”The public health team is assessing the risk of each person who was in close contact with the patient and determining if quarantine and testing for COVID-19 are warranted.The specific steps they take include:Interviewing the person to assess their exposure risk level. This includes understanding how close they were to the symptomatic patient.Based on that assessment, public health staff determine which additional public health activities are required, such as temperature and symptom checks.If the person is put in quarantine and remains asymptomatic 14 days after exposure, they will be released from quarantine.If the person in quarantine develops symptoms, public health staff would assess the need for testing them for COVID-19.If the result is presumptive positive, the person is put in isolation. Once they become asymptomatic, they require two negative tests at least 24 hours apart to be released from isolation.Protecting YourselfAlthough your risk of contracting COVID-19 remains low, the county’s public health team encourages you to protect yourself from COVID-19 and any other flu-like illness by following these simple steps:Wash your hands.Don’t touch your eyes, nose and mouth.Stay away from sick people.Clean and disinfect surfaces using regular household cleaning spray or wipes.Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.Stay home if you’re sick and don’t send sick children to school or childcare.Staying UpdatedWake County has made it easy for you to stay updated on the latest information about COVID-19.You can visit our COVID-19 webpage, which has a set of frequently asked questions to educate residents, as well as an email address and phone number that people can use to ask personal health-related questions about COVID-19. The county is also sharing important information on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts.


Scraping from https://covid19.wakegov.com/north-carolina-identifies-first-case-of-covid-19-2/


On March 3, 2020

North Carolina Identifies First Case of COVID-19On March 3, 2020[This press release is from the Office of Governor Roy Cooper on Tuesday, March 3.]A North Carolina person has tested positive for novel coronavirus (COVID-19). The test, conducted by North Carolina State Laboratory of Public Health, is presumptively positive and will be confirmed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) lab. The person is doing well and is in isolation at home.“I know that people are worried about this virus, and I want to assure North Carolinians our state is prepared,” said Governor Roy Cooper. “Our task force and state agencies are working closely with local health departments, health care providers and others to quickly identify and respond to cases that might occur.”The North Carolina person from Wake County traveled to the State of Washington and was exposed at a long-term care facility where there is currently a COVID-19 outbreak. Local health department officials are identifying close contacts to monitor symptoms and contain spread. To protect individual privacy, no further information will be released. While awaiting confirmation of results from the CDC, the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) will treat presumptive cases as positive and follow CDC guidelines to protect public health and limit the spread of infection. Today’s announcement represents an isolated case, and COVID-19 is currently not widespread in North Carolina. Because COVID-19 is most commonly spread through respiratory droplets, North Carolinians should take the same measures that healthcare providers recommend annually to prevent the spread of the flu and other viruses, including washing your hands, avoiding touching your face, and covering coughs and sneezes. Last month, Governor Cooper established the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Task Force to support the state’s ongoing effort to monitor, prepare for and respond to COVID-19. State actions include: Aggressively pursuing containment strategy of rapid identification, testing and contact tracing.Engaging in daily collaboration with federal, state and local partners to ensure rapid response.Mobilizing resources for our providers, local public health system, local emergency management, and others.Developing detailed response plans for multiple sectors for a range of scenarios.Developing guidance for planning for multiple sectors for a range of scenarios.Preparing healthcare providers and facilities to streamline and standardize response activities.Activating a Joint Information Center to provide timely information.Testing patients in the NC State Laboratory of Public Health.Leading regular calls with local health departments, hospitals and local emergency management.Providing guidelines for health care providers, child care, employers, schools, colleges and universities, and others.Monitoring residents who have returned from China through local health departments.Staffing a COVID-19 phone line to answer urgent questions from the public.Maintaining an up-to-date website with information about COVID-19 disease, risk and guidance.It is important to make sure the information you are getting about COVID-19 is coming directly from reliable sources like the CDC and NCDHHS. For more information, please visit the CDC’s website at www.cdc.gov/coronavirus and NCDHHS’ website at www.ncdhhs.gov/coronavirus, which will also include future positive COVID-19 test results in North Carolina.