Scraping from https://county.pueblo.org/board-county-commissioners/covid-19-variance-information




Pueblo County Board of Commissioners have submitted a variance request seeking state approval to slowly reopen businesses ahead of the statewide safer at home restrictions.  
The next step is for the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment to review and approve some or all of the variance submitted by Pueblo County. Once approvals have been determined, the health department will be working with businesses on next steps to safely reopen. 
Counties are allowed to submit for a variance to the statewide safer at home orders certifying that the county can document the following criteria:

Prevalence of COVID-19 within the county; such as demonstration of consecutive days of decline in COVID-19 cases reported in the county.
Community-wide testing; COVID-19 testing needs to be readily available for all symptomatic individuals. 
Hospital capacity is well-managed; the number of ICU beds and ventilators are adequate, and enough PPE is available to handle the current COVID-19 cases.
Local containment measures; such as how the county will detect new cases and contain the threat of an outbreak. 
The application must include a COVID-19 suppression plan approved by the local public health agency, all hospitals within the county and a majority of county commissioners. 
Local businesses want to reopen safely and thoughtfully, and this variance process allows Pueblo County to continue that process. 

You can view the variance submission that is pending state approval here. 
 
If you have a business type that is not included in the Variance Request, you can submit your variance steps using the following form:
 




--------------------------------------------Scraping from https://county.pueblo.org/public-health/covid-19


Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors
Read the executive order
Read the public health order
Safer at Home FAQs
Learn more 


APRIL 17 - GOVERNOR POLIS MANDATES MASKS FOR CRITICAL BUSINESSES AND FUNCTIONS
Governor Polis issued a new executive order requiring workers in critical businesses and critical government functions to wear medical or non-medical face coverings that cover the nose and mouth where workers interact in close proximity with other employees or with the public and to the extent possible, wear gloves when in contact with customers or goods. This includes grocery store workers, staff at congregate care facilities, and those still going to work each day to protect our food supply, roads, public health, etc.
Read the Public Health Order here
 


Pueblo County Holding Drive-Up
Testing Site Until June 30 at State Fairgrounds 
Pueblo County has opened a drive-up testing site in Pueblo through June 30 to test anyone with symptoms of COVID-19 (fever or chills, cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea). 

Individuals tested must be inside an enclosed vehicle for safety. No walk-ups or motorcycles are allowed through the testing site. The site is open to neighboring counties. The first 250 individuals each day will have access to drive up testing. No physician order is required, and all testing is free. 

The testing site is open from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday through June 30 at the Colorado State Fairgrounds, 1001 Beulah Avenue (enter through Gate 4 off Mesa Avenue and Gaylord Avenue). 

When going to the community testing site at the Fairgrounds, you will be doing a new self-swab test in your vehicle. This test is less invasive, watch this video to learn how to administer the test. https://youtu.be/vsQVxsQY3jc

 
 
 
Pueblo Department of Public Health and Environment (PDPHE) is continuing to closely monitor the COVID-19 outbreak and is in close and regular contact with Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
PDPHE has been planning for and practicing response for situations like this for over ten years. We have plans, partnerships, and resources in place to support the community and are working in close coordination with our regional public health partners, hospitals, and health care community.
Visit the CDPHE website for status updates on the outbreak. Healthcare providers, view the guidance for healthcare providers summarized for Pueblo County providers.
 
Looking Forward
In the event illness become widespread, we will follow best-practices and our plans created with the guidance of CDPHE and CDC. Actions may include things like:

Canceling large events that might cause us to infect each other
Closing schools and providing students opportunities to learn online instead
Requesting that employers support tele-working, flexible shifts, cross-training employees to cover when others are out sick, and cancel large meetings or conferences

 
Guidance for People with Symptoms
Symptom Tracker
Anyone with symptoms like cough, fever, or other respiratory problems should call their healthcare provider for guidance and separate themselves from others. They should NOT go to the emergency room in order to ensure the hospital resources are available for those with the most critical needs.

Guidance for People Who Are Returning from Travel


Residents can call CO-Help at 303-389-1687 or 1-877-462-2911 or email them at COHELP@RMPDC.org to get more information and ask questions about COVID-19. Information is available in English and Spanish.
 
Reducing the Spread of COVID-19
Retail Food Public Health Order Guidance 
COVID-19 can be especially dangerous for those at higher risk including people:

60 years old and older
With underlying health conditions including heart disease, lung disease, or diabetes
Who have weakened immune systems
Who are pregnant

 
Take Steps to Protect Those at High Risk

Anyone feeling ill should stay away from those at higher risk.
Those at higher risk should stay home and away from large groups as much as possible, including large gatherings where there may be close contact with others.
Try to avoid bringing large groups of people together and/or consider postponing events and gatherings.
Avoid visiting hospitals, long term care facilities, or nursing homes to the extent possible. Limit time there and keep at least six feet away from patients.



Related Links
COVID-19 Case Data
Guidance for Restaurants and Food Services
Guidance for Children’s Day Camps and Youth Sports Camps
Symptom Tracker
Best Practices for Retail Food Stores, Restaurants, and Food Pick-Up/Delivery Services During the COVID-19 Pandemic -
Community Resource Guide for Food and Groceries around Pueblo County during COVID-19 Precautionary Period
Retail Food Public Health Order Guidance
Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC)
Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment
World Health Organization
COVID-19 factsheet
Effective cleaning products for COVID-19
For employers
For health care providers
For Healthcare Facilities
For individuals & families
For pregnant women & children
For travelers - Global COVID-19 Outbreak Notice
For schools
Child care & preschools - New Supplemental Guidance for Child Care Programs that Remain Open
Colleges & universities
Community Events
Educators
School districts
School nurses
Movie: The Plan


Testing Criteria
Currently, the following individuals can be tested for COVID-19 at Pueblo’s COVID-19 Drive-Thru Testing: 

Any individual who is symptomatic 
Anyone over the age of 65 (symptomatic or asymptomatic) 
African American, Latino, American Indian Tribes (symptomatic or asymptomatic) 
Anyone who had contact with a person who has tested positive for COVID-19 


Health care workers and first responders (symptomatic or asymptomatic) 
A resident of a long-term care facility or anyone experiencing homelessness 
Attended a large gathering or protest



* Please note this guidance varies slightly from CDC. As we have capacity, Colorado will continue to consider testing for individuals who are not hospitalized in order to identify patients who have traveled to affected areas who have less severe disease. Fever can be subjective or confirmed.
 
Personal Preparation
We as individuals and families can prepare and practice now.
Getting ready for widespread disease is largely about preparing for possible shortages. Here are some things you can do:
 
Continue to Take Everyday Wellness Actions

Clean your hands frequently with soap and water or alcohol-based hand rub.
Cover your nose and mouth when coughing and sneezing.
Avoid close contact with anyone with cold or flu-like symptoms.
Stay home if you are sick.
Get an annual flu vaccine if you have not had one.

 
Gather a Few Extra Supplies

Try to get an extra months’ worth of prescription medications, if possible, in case there are supply chain disruptions.
Slowly start to stock up on enough non-perishable food to last your household through two weeks of staying at home if there is a wave of transmission in the community.


Plan for Closures & Changes

Think about how you will continue to work if your child’s school is closed.
Understand that your plans to participate in large gatherings may be cancelled.
Think through how you will take care of sick family members while trying not to get infected.
Make plans for childcare if you become sick, or when your child is sick.
Talk to your children about what they might expect.
Cross-train key staff at work so one person’s absence won’t derail your organization’s ability to function.

 
Practice Good Hygiene

Start practicing not touching your face now. This can greatly reduce the frequency of potential spread. (You can even try a buddy system, where you and a friend remind each other when someone scratches their eyelid or rubs their nose.)
Replace handshakes with elbow-bumps.
Start building healthy habits like pushing elevator buttons with a knuckle instead of a fingertip.
Avoid sharing e-cigarettes, drinks, etc.
Increase regular cleaning of frequently-touched items (e.g. doorknobs, faucet handles, etc.)

 
Employer Preparation
Employers can start planning and practicing too.
Use the CDC guidance to put continuity strategies in place like:

Cross-training so that core functions won’t be derailed if key employees are out sick.
Telework or flexible shift options.
Alternatives to large meetings or conferences.
Increased cleaning of frequently-touched items

 
Learn More

Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment
Centers for Disease Control
World Health Organization
Call CO-Help at 303-389-1687 or 1-877-462-2911 or email COHELP@RMPDC.org, for answers in English and Spanish

 
Planning Guidance

COVID-19 factsheet
Employers
Health care providers
Individuals & families
Pregnant women & children
For schools

Child care & preschools
Colleges & universities
Educators
School districts
School nurses


Travelers



Fact Sheets, Flyers, and Printable Resouces


