Scraping from https://www.denvergov.org/content/denvergov/en/covid-19/recovery-guidance/testing.html
Scraped on 2020-6-14


Testing Information






Can I Be Tested?
Across the City, there are multiple hospitals, state and local labs, and private labs capable of conducting the testing of swabs for COVID-19. To find a location near you, call 311 or view the information at the bottom of this page.






Drive-Up Testing at the Pepsi Center 
The City and County of Denver is expanding access to free, drive-up COVID-19 testing to anyone potentially exposed to the virus and those heading back to work during this current phase of recovery. With expanded access, people who do not currently have COVID-19 symptoms but believe they have been exposed to someone with COVID-19, or have been deemed essential by their employers, are now eligible to register for a free test.
Tests at Denver’s COVID-19 Drive-Up Testing Site are reliable, confidential, and available to anyone, regardless of insurance or immigration status.
The site is anticipated to have a testing capacity of approximately 500 individuals per day with a goal of gradually increasing that testing capacity.
Location: Pepsi Center, 1000 Chopper Circle
Enter at 7th Ave & Auraria
8 a.m. – 5 p.m., 7 days per week
Closed holidays
*Gates closed at 4 p.m.*
Before you go:

Register online and plan to go get tested within 24 hours of registration.
Those who do not have access to a computer can register by calling 311.
Minors may be registered by their parents.

The testing site will be open seven days a week except for holidays between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Please arrive no later than 4 p.m. 
 






Mobile Testing 
The city is offering mobile testing to homebound individuals through the Wellness Winnie.
A team in the Wellness Winnie is visiting the homes of individuals who sign up for COVID-19 testing through the Denver Department of Public Health and Environment. The Wellness Winnie is for people who suspect they have contracted COVID-19 but are truly unable to access tests on their own due to transportation, mobility, or financial limitations. The team includes a medical professional, as well as support staff for paperwork and driving.
To find out if you qualify for this service, contact 311. 311 operators are available Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. They will ask you some questions to ensure you meet the requirements, and then you’ll be scheduled for a visit.
The Winnie is planned to operate for five to six days per week, during normal business hours.






What are the eligibility criteria for mobile testing?  What will they ask me? 
When callers reach 311 they will hear “if you are calling to see if you qualify for free mobile COVID-19 testing from the City & County of Denver, please press 7.”
In order to receive a free COVID-19 test you must meet the following criteria:

You believe you have symptoms of COVID-19 or have been told by Public Health that you are a close contact of a positive COVID-19 case; and
are unable to travel to a COVID 19 testing facility; and
are a resident of the City and County of Denver.

If you can answer “yes” to these 3 items, please hold to speak to Denver Department of Public Health & Environment.” If you cannot answer “yes” to these 3 items, please hang up and go to Denvergov.org for more information.
People who are undocumented are encouraged to get tested if they are symptomatic; ID is not required for our mobile testing program. We ask for name and DOB for records purposes – that is the only way we can confirm a person’s test results. If you are visiting another testing site, please call to confirm what is required for testing.






If you need a sign language interpreter or CART Services, contact SignLanguageServices@denvergov.org with at least a three (3) business day notice. For other public accommodation requests/concerns related to a disability, please contact DisabilityAccess@denvergov.org.






Documentation Required for Testing
Please have documentation that shows your name (may be current or expired). Name verification is required to identify individuals who have been tested multiple times. Examples of verification documents:

Photo ID
Passport (any country)
School ID
Library card
Consular ID card
A bill with your name on it
RTD pass with your name on it
Colorado Quest Card (EBT card) 







What is Contact Tracing?
Contact tracing, coupled with rigorous testing, can counteract a potential second wave and prevent cases from spiking again. Contact tracing is part of the overall function of case management in public health. There are three main components to case management:

Interviews: Trained staff interview people who have been diagnosed with COVID-19 to determine who they may have been in close contact with during the time they were considered to have been infectious.
Contact tracing: Staff then warn these individuals, or contacts, of their potential exposure as quickly and sensitively as possible. In order to protect patient privacy, contacts are only informed that they may have been exposed to an individual with the infection. They are not told the identity of the person who may have exposed them. They are offered resources and support.
Contain: People who have had contact with a COVID-19 positive patient are provided with education, information, and support to understand their risk, what they should do to separate themselves from others, how to monitor themselves for illness, and the possibility that they could spread the infection to others even if they themselves do not feel ill. If a contact becomes symptomatic, the local public health department can be contacted to assist them in getting tested. If the contact tests positive for COVID-19, their recent contacts will be traced and informed, too.

It is very important that residents help the health workers by answering the phone. Health workers will not ask any private questions about finances or social security numbers. 
The process continues until everyone who has been exposed is isolated from others to reduce virus transmission. Contact tracing, coupled with rigorous testing, can counteract a potential second wave and prevent cases from spiking again.
Denver Department of Public Health & Environment is not currently hiring or soliciting volunteers for Contact Tracing, as we are managing with internal and partner resources. If DDPHE does begin seeking volunteers or hiring staff for Contact Tracing, we will post a link on this page. Please check back in the future, and we appreciate all of the offers of support we have received thus far!
Is Denver working with other cities?
Since COVID-19 does not stop at jurisdictional boundaries, Denver will work with other regional local public health agencies to continue coordinating case investigations and to improve contact tracing. The partnership will help to ensure contact tracing will be complete and thorough.







COVID-19 Testing: City and County of Denver






*If you are aware of additional locations, please send the information to: mdeland@ncrhcc.org* 






 






With Safer at Home underway and the phased loosening of state restrictions continuing, business and leisure activities are resuming in Denver. As of June 9, face coverings continue to be mandatory while inside of or waiting in line to enter any retail or commercial business, or any location or facility offering government or health care services and while waiting for or riding on public transportation.
Since the beginning of May, many businesses have been allowed to re-open with 50 percent of employees if able to maintain six-foot physical distancing, abide by the face covering order and other guidelines.
As of May 27, the city aligned with the State’s decision allowing restaurants to resume limited sit-down service. Face coverings are required for restaurant employees and customers, except while eating and drinking.
Everyone is urged to continue to stay at home unless absolutely necessary. We know this is a big ask of our residents and businesses, but it is a necessary step to ensure the health and safety of our community.

COVID-19 Denver Recovery Presentation: English (PDF) & Spanish (PDF)







To report an issue or for additional questions and assistance, please contact us at:
Within Denver, dial 3-1-1
Outside of Denver, dial 720-913-1311






 CO-HELP
Colorado’s call line for general questions about COVID-19 provides answers in many languages including English, Spanish (Español), Mandarin (普通话) and more.
303-389-1687 or
1-877-462-2911
COHELP@RMPDC.org (answers in English only)






 If you need medical attention, contact a health care provider.




