


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/2098/COVID-19-News-Updates





Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/1581/Telephone-Town-Hall-Meetings





Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1754


 
Arapahoe County will temporarily close its Aurora Motor Vehicle Office 
from
 Wednesday, July 15 
through
 Friday, July 17
,
 after 
the county confirmed one employee tested positive for COVID-19
 and other employees may have been exposed. 
The office is located at 490 S. Chambers Road in Aurora.
Arapahoe County is following T
ri-
C
ounty 
H
ealth 
D
epartment
 and CDC guidelines 
that cover what steps to take 
when an employee tests positive
,
 and 
the 
one 
employee who tested positive
 is 
quarantining
. 
Additionally, 
employees who have worked at the Aurora office within the past week 
are 
being 
encouraged
 to 
get tested. 
Public 
h
ealth guidelines state that 
exposure 
has
 taken place when a person is in a contained space for 15 minutes or longer with someone known to have the virus.
The County is reaching out to customers who had appointments for motor vehicle services at the Aurora offic
e for rescheduling. M
otor vehicle services will continue being offered 
by appointment only 
at the 
Littleton
, 
Centennial
 and Byers
 
o
ffices
. 
O
ffices are being deep cleaned and decontaminated as a precautionary measure. 
“We are closing the Aurora Motor Vehicle Office out of an abundance of caution for our customers and our employees,” said Clerk and Recorder Joan Lopez. “We will continue to monitor the situation and work closely with Tri-County Health 
to ensure we are doing everything possible to keep everyone safe. We ask for patience and understanding during this time
 and understand
 this closure comes at a time when customers have had limited access to services due to COVID.
 The safety of our customers and employees is 
our top concern.
” 
Many motor vehicle transactions can be handled online at 
https://mydmv.colorado.gov
, including vehicle renewals, replacement documents and disability placards. 
Renewal kiosks are also 
available throughout 
Arapahoe County
 and 
in 
neighboring counties that can process most 
renewal transactions
. Th
e
se kiosk locations can be found at 
https://comvexpress.com
. 
Customers
 can use any 
of these 
kiosk
s
 to process renewal
s
.
Arapahoe County has instituted 
health and safety protocols since reopening facilities to the public. These measures 
include 
sanitizing 
counters and workstations 
regularly
, 
requiring 
employees
 and visitors to
 wear face coverings, 
additional cleaning in public areas, 
employee 
temperature monitoring, 
practicing 
social distancing
, 
ample 
instructional 
signage
 in all offices
,
 a
dding 
hand 
sanitizing stations
 through
out
 the buildings, and
 encouraging residents 
to 
access services online
 to handle many tr
ansactions remotely.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1735


 
Decision should allow increased indoor capacity as local businesses reopen
On Monday, June 29, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) approved Arapahoe County’s recent 
request for a variance
 from 
Public Health Order 20-28
, with certain conditions.
The County 
filed the variance request on June 10
 and requested that allowances be made for area gyms, restaurants, houses of worship and indoor malls. The CDPHE granted these requests “based on the low disease prevalence” within the County, and the agency stipulated the following restrictions:
Gyms, restaurants and houses of worship
: Each may allow for 50% of the posted occupancy code, not to exceed more than 175 people in a confined indoor space with a minimum of 6 feet distancing. Restaurants and houses of worship may work with their local authorities to determine how many people they may have in an outdoor space.
Indoor malls
: The current requirements limit confined spaces for indoor events to 100 people. The CDPHE said that the County’s request of 30% building capacity “does not include a total person limit, other than what is calculated using a ratio of one person per 55 square feet. Based on the low-level variance approval, the total limit for an indoor mall for any confined indoor space is 175 people.” The CDPHE also stressed that “it is critical for the common spaces within the indoor mall to be well-managed, as described in the variance application, to mitigate gatherings above 10 people and keep traffic flow moving.”
The CDPHE response said that the variance is subject to adjustment should 
conditions worsen as described.
Arapahoe County Board Chair Nancy Sharpe welcomed the CDPHE’s decision. “The Board of County Commissioners appreciates the CDPHE’s flexibility on this matter,” she said. “We want to get our economy up and running again, but we realize that this will only happen successfully if all County residents and businesses do their part to help ensure that everyone is maintaining the health and safety practices that are crucial to slowing the spread of COVID.”
Officials at the Tri-County Health Department also expressed their satisfaction with the variance. “The request submitted by the Board meets the guidelines we’ve recommended,” said Jennifer Ludwig, deputy director of the Tri-County Health Department. “We will continue to work closely with County officials to monitor the conditions on the ground as this next phase begins, and we’ll issue updates about the situation as needed.”
Read the CDPHE’s full response
 on the County’s website.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1731


 
With the goal of keeping families in their homes during the coronavirus crisis and related transitions, 
Arapahoe County has rolled out a new Rental and Mortgage Assistance Program (RMAP) to households that have experienced income loss directly related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
“This program offers support to community members who have been impacted by COVID-19,” said Commissioner Bill Holen. “This will help these residents focus on other important needs such as putting food on the table, child care and anything else they need to do to stabilize their households during this recovery.”
The primary threshold, in addition to any income losses being directly attributable to COVID-19, is households that have a total income at or below 80 percent of the AMI (Area Median Income), currently about $78,500 per year for a household of four.
The RMAP has detailed and specific requirements for eligibility (below), and it is an addition to the County’s existing rental and mortgage assistance programs. The funds dedicated to this program are limited, and completing this application does not guarantee assistance.
For more information and to determine eligibility, visit our 
Arapahoe CARES site
. For assistance or questions, please call 303-738-8040 or email 
housingassistance@arapahoegov.com
.
Am I Eligible?
To qualify for this assistance program
, 
applicants must
:
Be an Arapahoe County resident
Have experienced a 
COVID-19-related income loss
Be income-eligible for the grant funding
Provide proof of having applied for unemployment compensation
Provide proof of who lives in your household (must be the IDs or the lease showing all household members)
Provide proof of income for every member of the household prior to submitting the application. (i.e. pay stubs, social security award letters, proof of child support, or proof of other income)
Applicants must provide a current signed lease or mortgage statement
Applicants must provide landlord or mortgage company contact information. Either must be willing to provide a W9 and accept payment from Arapahoe County
How to Apply
For application instructions
, please visit our 
Arapahoe CARES page
 and look for the 
Rent and Mortgage Assistance Program
 section.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1728


 
CARES program funding will help businesses affected by COVID-19
Recognizing the impact the COVID-19 crisis has had on small and medium-size businesses, the Arapahoe County CARES Program is launching 
Advance Arapahoe
, a $6 million grant program that will provide support and retain jobs at businesses throughout the County.
“This is one of the first grant programs we’re launching through the Arapahoe County CARES Program, and it will provide crucial relief to businesses most affected by the COVID-19 shutdowns,” said Arapahoe County Board Chair Nancy Sharpe. “These small and medium-size businesses are essential to our economy, and Arapahoe Advance is a step toward providing some stability through this transition to reopening.”
Advance Arapahoe’s first priority will be to fund employers within the boundaries of unincorporated Arapahoe County, as most businesses within incorporated communities can apply to relief programs through their jurisdiction. Award preference also will be given for employers who commit to retain and/or bring back employees with these funds
Funds are available in two grant categories:
Business interruption grants to support operational needs such as lease or mortgage payments, utility expenses, payroll expense, supplies and services, materials
Infrastructure/PPE grants 
to purchase items, including PPE, needed to adapt a business to new processes or items that are required to operate in a different manner due to the COVID-19 crisis
Grants in both categories will be up to $20,000, depending on the size of the company. 
Qualifying businesses must have operated a physical location in Arapahoe County since at least June 1, 2019, have 500 or fewer employees, be in good standing with regulatory agencies, meet minimum financial requirements and retain at least one job (that meets low- to moderate-income requirements) as a result of this assistance.
Applications for this program will open on June 22, 2020. 
The streamlined application process is designed to be quick and easy, with applications due by 
July 3, 2020
, or until the funds have been depleted.
Advance Arapahoe is part of 
Arapahoe CARES
, the federally funded relief program that awarded $114.5 million to the County under the 
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act
.
View complete 
eligibility information for Advance Arapahoe
. 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1715


 
Citing encouraging trends, ample hospital capacity, and a robust suppression plan for containing the spread of COVID-19, the Arapahoe County Board of Commissioners submitted a request today to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE), asking the state to grant a variance from current public health orders for certain industries within the county.
The Board specifically requested that gyms, houses of worship, and restaurants be allowed to operate at 50 percent of the fire code capacity, subject to strict social distancing and sanitation measures. The Board also asked to open indoor malls, with restrictions similar to Jefferson and Douglas counties.
A variance will allow Arapahoe County to implement its own reopening plans in the timeframe that best meets the needs of its communities for the business categories mentioned above. “This request is designed to expand our local economy’s ability to recover from the pandemic in a responsible manner,” said Commissioner Nancy N. Sharpe, chair of the board. “We will continue to remain vigilant, implementing recommended public health practices to reduce the spread of COVID-19 within Arapahoe County.”
The CDPHE has established a 
review process
, assessing variance request based on the level of virus transmission in a particular county, the level of exposure risk of the proposed activity, and the comprehensiveness of the proposed prevention plan.
Although Arapahoe County has one of the highest case numbers in the state, it has seen a 
declining trend in daily case numbers
 since hitting a peak in early May, distributed proportionally to the population in municipalities and unincorporated areas across the county. Nearly 25 percent of Arapahoe County cases are from a Long-Term Care Facility, and 67 percent of COVID-19 deaths in the County are from these facilities. Arapahoe County has implemented local measures to contain and manage the virus, including increased testing and contact tracing in partnership with the Tri-County Health Department.
For more information and to view the request, view the 
Safer at Home Variance Application
.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1703


 
Yesterday, Gov. Jared Polis announced that the state is shifting to a new phase: Safer at Home and in the Vast, Great Outdoors.
This new phase, effective immediately, offers new guidelines for several key areas including Places of Worship, Personal Recreation, and Outdoor Recreation. Many restrictions have been eased but still emphasize social distancing, face coverings, frequent cleaning, and avoiding large gatherings.
Additionally, Gov. Polis announced that businesses can now refuse service to the unmasked, should they choose to do so. Ultimately, the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment encourages everyone to follow new guidelines to the best of their abilities for the safety and benefit of all.
View 
Places of Worship
 guidance
 
View 
Personal Recreation
 guidance
 (e.g. gyms, pools, playgrounds, organized sports, etc.)
View 
Outdoor Recreation
 guidance
View a full listing of current 
Safer-at-Home Guidelines
Questions
If you have specific questions about any of the Safer-at-Home guidelines, you can contact the 
Tri-County Health Department
 at 303-220-9200 or 
callcenter@tchd.org
. 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1701


 
The Arapahoe County Board of Commissioners has approved a resolution that will allow qualified restaurants, bars and other retail food or beverage businesses in unincorporated Arapahoe County to expand their service areas for temporary outdoor accommodations. These businesses have been ordered to close under the series of recent public health orders (PHOs) relating to the COVID-19 crisis, and this resolution will be in effect for the duration of the state’s orders.
This temporary emergency measure relaxes enforcement of the applicable zoning laws, site plans or other restrictions so that these businesses can begin welcoming customers, as long as the facility is observing the health and safety protocols enacted under the PHOs.
The resolution attempts to strike a balance between encouraging business owners to start earning revenue again and the need to continue taking actions that will help slow the spread of the coronavirus. “The Board wants to maintain public health and safety but also recognizes that one size does not fit all when it comes to the PHOs and how they’ve been applied across the County,” said Board Chair Nancy Sharpe. “As long as these businesses in our unincorporated areas are complying with sound anti-COVID practices and have the space to set up outdoor service, they should be able to take advantage of the summer weather and reopen.”
To apply for a temporary outdoor service allowance, interested businesses should view our 
COVID-19 Business Resources info
.
 
The Arapahoe County Public Works and Development department (PWD) has established an administrative review and approval process to expedite these applications and allow qualified businesses to begin reopening as quickly as possible.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1657


 
Visits will be by appointment only, 
with
 new health 
and safety 
protocols in place
 On 
Monday, 
May 18, Arapahoe County will begin reopening its facilities to the public after being closed since late-March
 due to the coronavirus health crisis
. 
R
eopened buildings will operate under significant health and safety restrictions that are designed to protect the public and County employees by slowing the spread of COVID-19.
 These measures
 – which require customers to wear mask and practice social distancing – w
ill remain 
in place indefinitely
,
 and 
the County 
will continually reevaluate its practices as new public health information
, data
 and guidelines become available.
Most 
C
ounty services are available online
, and 
residents should continue to follow safer at home guidelines and 
limit
 travel to
 help slow the spread of the virus
. This includes any visits to County facilities, and residents should s
chedule appointments whenever possible rather than simply coming to a facility.
The following 
County facilities will open 
May 18
: 
Administration Building
Appointment-only services 
for 
Assessor, Clerk & Recorder, and 
Treasurer 
Offices
. Note
:
D
river’s license and passport services 
will not
 be available.
CentrePoint
 Plaza
 – Department of Human Services
Walk-up services for 
c
ommunity and 
c
hild 
s
upport 
s
ervices
,
 and 
for 
use of the 
TouchPay
 kiosk for child support payments, benefit repayments and more.
Child and 
a
dult 
p
rotection 
s
ervices
, and 
l
egal and 
f
inance services
 by appointment only
. 
Drop-box available just outside the main entrance for document drop-off only.
Lima Plaza
Appointment-only services for 
P
ublic 
W
orks and 
D
evelopment, 
O
pen 
S
paces, and 
C
ommunity 
R
esource
s.
Sheriff’s Office
Open by a
ppointment only for Concealed Handgun Program 
(CHP) 
permits and fingerprinting.
 CHP permit renewals can be completed online.
County courthouses
A
ll r
esidents
 should check 
ArapahoeGov.com
/COVID19
 for specific hours
 and appointment scheduling before they visit a
ny
 County facility
.
 If officials at a facility 
or office 
determine that a space’s 
capacity 
is getting too constrained to practice safe social distancing, they have the authority to limit further visits 
or move people to waiting areas 
until the number of patrons drops to an acceptable level. 
All County facilities will have no more than 50 percent of staff on site at any given time. A
ll County employees will be required to wear masks
 at work
, and some public-facing employees will also wear gloves when appropriate. Visitors
 will be required to wear masks 
while inside these facilities
.
Each facility will have 
social distance markings, 
posted reminders about safe health and hygiene practices, 
queue lines, security personnel and staff monitors
 to ensure that employees and visitors are 
help
ing
 reduce
 the chances of exposing others
 to 
the coronavirus
. 
Facility cleaning 
protocols have been increased 
throughout 
the work
day, 
and 
employees will wipe down 
individual areas 
between
 each public transaction.
For more information about Arapahoe County’s reopening protocols and health and safety guidelines, visit 
ArapahoeGov.com
/COVID19
.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1642


 
Businesses will be able to open at lower density and following best practices
Tri-County Health Department (TCHD), along with other Denver Metro health departments, will allow its Stay-at-Home order to expire May 8 at midnight for Adams and Arapahoe counties. With that expiration, each of Tri-County Health Department’s counties--Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas counties--will be under the State’s current 
Safer-at-Home order
. This means that on May 9, Critical Businesses can remain open, and many non-Critical Businesses can begin to open, with some restrictions.
“We want to thank our entire community for the unprecedented effort made by so many to enhance our social distancing and allow us to make our communities safer during the COVID-19 epidemic. This has clearly involved social, psychological, and economic hardship for many. While COVID-19 will continue to be with us for the foreseeable future, our hospitals now have sufficient capacity and medical equipment, and we have the support systems in place to deliver the best healthcare we can if a surge should take place,” said John M. Douglas, Jr., MD, Executive Director of Tri-County Health Department. “I am grateful for the sacrifices that our community has made to slow the spread of COVID-19, and we must remain vigilant to continue that trend and keep our communities safe while we gradually re-open our businesses.”
Since the local extension of the Stay-At-Home order began on April 27, access to COVID-19 testing and personal protective equipment (PPE) has started to improve, with the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) providing additional testing and PPE to local providers and test sites. TCHD is working closely with medical providers to increase testing and capacity to do contact tracing for COVID-19.  Over the past two weeks, testing in Adams and Arapahoe Counties has increased by 109% and 86%, respectively, while over the same time period, TCHD has more than doubled staff who are trained to undertake case investigation, contact notification, and outbreak response.  Furthermore, while the increase in testing means that the reported number of cases in our counties has not yet declined, the number of persons hospitalized due to COVID-19 continues to go down, which is a very encouraging sign.
With businesses beginning to reopen, it is important to remember that many of the actions required under the Stay-at-Home order still apply. It is critical that businesses follow best practices for reopening, and more information can be found at 
https://covid19.colorado.gov/safer-at-home
  or 
www.tchd.org/coronavirus
.
TCHD has developed 
tools for businesses
, including a checklist, that provide reopening guidance. In addition, TCHD has a 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ
) page. Reopening information will also be provided on Town Hall events occurring throughout the week. “Businesses are anxious to reopen and want to make sure they have everything in place to do so,” said Douglas. “We thank the business community and county and city leadership for their patience and support through this trying time.”
Individuals are strongly advised to continue staying at home to the greatest extent possible, only interacting with household members and only leaving for essential activities. Of particular importance, those at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as people 65 and older and those with underlying medical problems, should continue to stay at home unless leaving is absolutely necessary.
In addition, everyone should continue to take the following disease prevention actions to protect themselves and others in their family and community:
Wear a non-medical mask or face covering when away from your home, particularly in indoor settings where social distancing is difficult.
Stay at least six feet away from others if you must go out.
If you have symptoms of COVID-19, isolate yourself and contact your health care provider
Do not go to work or other public spaces if you are sick.
Wash your hands frequently with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.
Only travel when absolutely essential.
For more information about the Safer-at-Home level, visit 
www.tchd.org/coronavirus
 or 
covid19.colorado.gov/safer-at-home
.
-end-
Tri-County Health Department serves over 1.5 million people in Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties. It provides over 60 programs and services including birth certificates, immunizations, WIC, restaurant inspections, family planning, STI/HIV Testing, and infectious disease investigations. For more information, visit 
www.tchd.org
 Twitter @TCHDHealth or Facebook @cotchd. 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1630


 
The Stay-at-Home public health order remains in place for Arapahoe County residents until May 8, but certain businesses may offer curbside and delivery service starting April 27.
Arapahoe County retail businesses may begin offering curbside pickup and delivery services from April 27 to May 8, per Tri-County Health Department’s 
public health order that extended the state Stay-at-Home Order
. 
G
uidance and best practices for curbside and delivery services
 available at 
https://bit.ly/RetailCurbsideDeliveryServiceCOVID19


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1625


 
Tri-County Health Department’s Board of Health directs executive director to develop Public Health Orders extending Gov. Polis Stay at Home order with few exceptions
Tri-County Health Department will be extending Gov. Polis Stay at Home order until May 8th in Arapahoe and Adams Counties in an effort to stem the ongoing high level of COVID-19 virus infection in these counties. Douglas County, which has had case numbers level off in recent weeks will not be subject to this order and will continue with the Governor’s Safer at Home order released earlier this week.
“We want to get people back to work as soon as it is safer to do so,” said John M. Douglas, Jr., MD, Executive Director of Tri-County Health Department. “This extension in Adams and Arapahoe will give us more time to do several things: expand public health measures such as testing and contact notification, develop and implement strategies in partnership with our business community on how to safely reopen, and to encourage the public to practice social distancing and other safety measures---all of which should hopefully reduce the spread of this disease.”
TCHD along with other Denver Metro health departments — Jefferson County Public Health, Broomfield County Public Health, Boulder County Public Health, Denver Public Health and Environment– has been looking carefully at the Governor’s Safer-at-Home plan for dealing with COVID-19, including his request that each county and region examine their own data and context and make decisions appropriate for the nature of the epidemic in their areas. TCHD has done so and has come to the conclusion that, like much of the Metro area, Adams and Arapahoe Counties are not yet ready to relax the restrictions that were put in place with the Governor’s Stay-at-Home order.
The key difference between the statewide Stay-at-Home order and the Tri-County’s planned extension of the order in Adams and Arapahoe counties is the allowance for non-Critical Businesses to begin to offer curbside delivery of products as a step to helping our businesses re-open. Additionally, travel to pick up these goods will now be included in the definition for necessary travel.
Governor Polis’ “Safer at Home” order calls for a gradual reopening of businesses throughout the state. Some businesses can open April 27, for example, retail businesses can offer curbside service. Salons and other personal services can re-open May 1, with strict protocols. Restaurant, bars and venues will remain closed.
Tri-County Health Department will issue the public health orders for Adams and Arapahoe County by Sunday, April 26, 2020.
-end-
Tri-County Health Department serves over 1.5 million people in Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties. It provides over 60 programs and services including birth certificates, immunizations, WIC, restaurant inspections, family planning, STI/HIV Testing, and infectious disease investigations. For more information, visit 
www.tchd.org
 Twitter @TCHDHealth or Facebook @cotchd.
 
 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1608





Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1595


 
Aurora, Colo
.
, March 27
, 2020 
–
 
Arapahoe County c
hild and 
adult 
protection
 workers 
have stepped up health protection protocols
 to help 
slow
 the spread of COVID-19 
among both clients and staff when
 delivering human services and 
protection services for
 at-risk adults in Arapahoe County.
 
 
Prior to face-to-face contact, s
creeners and caseworkers 
are
 asking 
every 
client
 questions a
bout 
recent travel, their 
general 
health and well-being
,
 and whether they may have had any physical contact with someone with COVID-19. The answers will help workers plan a proper response. If caseworkers are responding to a call of abuse and neglect and health concerns exist 
in the household
,
 personal protective equipment
 (PPE)
 
is
 available 
as recommended by the Arapahoe County Office of Emergency Management. 
 
It is a state and federal requirement that our
 
primary
 operations continue during this time
. T
he welfare and safety of the public, especially vulnerable children, families and at-risk adults, 
continue
s
 to be 
a 
priority in
 Arapahoe County
, 
as essential governmental fu
nctions 
will 
remain open during the 
Stay at Home Public Health Order
 
 
issued 
by 
Gov. Polis and the Colorado Department of Public Healt
h and Environment
 effective Mar.
 26.
 
All Arapahoe County buildings will remain closed to the public through at least April 17, 2020 to help curb the spread of COVID-19
, 
but
 Human Services caseworkers are working 
remotely
 in order to continue to meet the needs of Arapahoe County citizens
. A
ll essential meetings and team efforts 
are
 being conducted 
via 
video conferencing or phone.
 
“More than ever, we rely on technology to help us visit our clients vi
rtually, and c
heck in on families during this
 crisis
,” said 
Arapahoe County 
Human Services Director, Cheryl Ternes. “But as an essential governmental 
agency
, we have a duty to provide 
the 
services and face-to-face contact 
that are 
required in many cases
 
to 
en
sure 
that 
children and youth in Arapahoe County are protected from abuse and neglect.”
 
Arapahoe County 
remains 
committed to delivering 
our crucial
 
human services
,
 and 
we 
thank all 
the
 citizens who are abiding by the 
issued 
stay-at-h
ome order
 and 
promoting
 
the 
health and the safety of our children, families and at-risk adults.
 
Our crisis hotline remains open
,
 and reports of potential abuse and neglect to children and at-risk adults 
will
 
continue to be 
received with no disruption.
 
Please report potential child abuse or neglect by calling 
303-636-1750 or 1-
844-CO-4-KIDS (1-844-264-5437)
. More than half of 
all 
child abuse and neglect phone calls 
received in Arapahoe County 
come from mandatory reporters, including teachers and school staff. While schools are closed in order to slow the spread of COVID-19, it is even more important that everyone report their concerns about the safety and well-being of a child or teen.
 
For general questions to Arapahoe County Child and Adult Protection Services call 303-636-1589.
 
# # #
 
 
Connect with Arapahoe County
 
Stay informed and give us your input about Arapahoe County Government. Sign up for news releases, agendas and updates to our website via our 
Notify Me
 
Link
 at 
www.arapahoegov.com
. Or, connect with us via 
Facebook
, 
Twitter
, 
Nextdoor
, Instagram
, 
YouTube
 and 
LinkedIn
.
 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1588





Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1574


 
View PDF version of this press release
View PDF version of the Stay-At-Home Public Health Order
Three Metro Denver Public Health Departments Issue Stay-At-Home Orders to Stop the Spread of COVID-19
Jefferson County, Colo.
 — Three public health departments serving more than 2 million residents across the Metro Denver region joined together to issue 
Stay-At-Home Public Health Orders
 in their counties today, effective March 26 at 8:00 a.m. until April 17 at 11:59 p.m. unless officials determine it is in the interest of public health to expire at an earlier date and time. The departments include Boulder County Public Health, Jefferson County Public Health and Tri-County Health Department (which serves Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties).
“There is widespread transmission of COVID-19 in the Metro Denver area, and we must take bold actions to stop the spread of this virus,” said John M. Douglas, Jr., MD, executive director of Tri-County Health Department. “With each passing day, we run a growing risk of greater transmission and illness and quickly overwhelming our hospitals, which are really a resource for our entire region and state. When this happens, not everyone may get the care they need. It’s a real possibility in Colorado — and a situation which has already occurred in countries such as Italy — and which is threatening to happen in major U.S. cities in other areas of our country. We understand the toll that measures to address the pandemic are having on our communities, and we want to reassure residents that this step is temporary, and a critical one to get us closer to recovery.”
These Stay-At-Home Orders are in addition to other recently issued public health orders that promote social distancing, such as those from the 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment
. While beneficial, we do not believe they have done enough to slow transmission. The 
Stay-At-Home Orders
 go a step further by requiring individuals to do their part by staying at home and away from others.
The Public Health Orders require that all people in each county stay at their place of residence, and that they make every effort possible to conduct only essential activities necessary to maintain health and well-being, such as getting groceries, obtaining medical supplies or medication, and/or engaging in outdoor activities like walking, hiking or running while following other social distancing practices.
Work to provide essential business and government services or perform essential public infrastructure construction, including housing, is also permitted. People at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and people who are sick are urged to stay in their residence except to seek medical care.
“Scientific evidence shows that we must act now, at this stage of the COVID-19 emergency, in order to save lives in the long-run. It will give us the time we need to test comprehensively and to slow the spread of the virus to prevent our health care system from being overwhelmed,” said Jeff Zayach, Boulder County Public Health executive director.
“The virus is easily spread through person-to-person contact, and the risk of transmission is much greater when people are in close proximity,” said Dr. Mark B. Johnson, Jefferson County Public Health executive director. “This order will help protect everyone in our community by ensuring social distancing measures are followed. By taking this action now, we can start to 
flatten the pandemic curve
.” 
Examples of Activities Permitted and Not Permitted Under the Stay-At-Home Orders*
PERMITTED
Getting medical care for you, a family member or your pet
Visiting a health care professional
Getting medical supplies or medication
Going to get groceries, food (via takeout, drive-thru, food banks/pantries) or other essential household items
Getting supplies to work from home
Picking up materials from your child’s school needed for distance learning (tablet, books)
Going outside for physical activity, as long as you stay at least 6 feet away from people who are not in your household and follow social distancing practices
Going to work, ONLY if you provide essential products or services at an essential business (health care operations, infrastructure operations and maintenance, certain government functions)
NOT PERMITTED
In-person public or private gatherings of any size with people outside of your residence
Traveling, except to get or provide essential services or medical care
Carpooling with anyone outside of your residence
*This is not a comprehensive list. Please refer to the orders for a complete list of essential activities and services, as well as social distancing requirements.
During the stay-at-home period, we encourage our communities to stay connected with one another and take steps to maintain health and well-being. Here are some ideas:
Call or video chat with friends, neighbors and family.
Go for a walk outside, but keep at least 6 feet away from others.
Plan a family game night with people who already live in your home.
Read a good book, listen to music or stream a favorite show.
Cook a healthy meal.
Get a head-start on spring cleaning.
Do arts and crafts — get creative and use what’s available in your home.
For more information about COVID-19 and resources availability in your community:
Boulder County
Jefferson County
Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1568


 
March 23, 2020—
The Arapahoe County Board of County Commissioners has announced that all county facilities will remain closed to the public effective through at least April 17, 2020. This closure is designed to help curb the spread of COVID-19, and the decision is consistent with guidelines issued by the White House, and by state and public health officials.
The county will continue to make a number of its 
services available online
, and many county operations will continue during this closure. 
The Board of County Commissioners is working closely with the Tri-County Health Department and the county’s Office of Emergency Management to monitor the situation and will make any changes as new data or guidance becomes available.
County departments and offices will maintain reduced staffing levels to support essential operations, while other employees will work from home.
For more information, visit 
ArapahoeGov.com/covid19
.
-30-


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1565


 
On March 20, 2020, Governor Polis signed an Executive Order granting County Treasurers the authority to waive delinquent interest on late tax payments. This Executive Order will remain in effect for 30 days, until April 20, 2020. Based on this Executive Order, Treasurer Sue Sandstrom will waive interest as follows:
For those taxpayers who did not make a first half tax payment by the March 2 due date, and those who would now have difficulty making a full payment by the April 30 due date, you may now make the first half payment of your tax liability by April 20, 2020, and 
interest will be waived
. Your second half payment will then be due by June 15.
Full payments remain due by April 30, and payments made after April 30 will still be subject to delinquent interest, unless the Governor extends the Executive Order, or the State Legislature provides statutory relief.
For those taxpayers who have already made a first half payment, your second half payment is due by June 15. If not made by June 15, such payments will still be subject to delinquent interest, unless the Governor extends the Executive Order or the State Legislature provides statutory relief.
IMPORTANT:
 Please note that due to automation features, 
our online and over-the-phone payment system cannot waive interest
. To take advantage of the waiver of interest on first half payments, you must 
mail 
your payment to our office or utilize the ballot box outside of the Administration Building as a 
drop box
.
Payments remitted by mortgage companies and title agencies are not included in this waiver of first half payment interest. Interest on delinquent payments from prior years and redemption interest on tax liens are also excluded from this waiver.
Limited Payment Locations During County Closure
During the county closure, property tax payments will still be accepted. Those that wish to drop off their payments may put their payments in the Clerk and Recorder’s Ballot Box outside of the Administration Building located at 5334 S. Prince St., Littleton, CO 80120. Please do not put cash in the ballot box.
 This is the ONLY dropbox location available during the closure. 
Payments made by 
mail
, 
online
, or 
over the phone
 will be accepted as normal.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1553


 
Telephone Town Hall Rescheduled 
Due to the spring blizzard hitting the Front Range and the impact it has on our emergency responders, tonight’s COVID-19 Telephone Town Hall is being 
rescheduled for Tuesday, March 24 at 7 p.m. 
We apologize for any inconvenience and hope you’ll join us next week for important updates. 
-------------
The March 19 event will provide the latest coronavirus news and best practices
On Thursday, March 19, at 7 p.m., 
Douglas
, 
Adams
 and 
Arapahoe
 counties will host a COVID-19 Virtual Town Hall with 
Tri-County Health Department
 officials, county leaders, and subject matter experts from each county, to update participants about the latest developments in the coronavirus health crisis.
The virtual town hall will be aired live beginning at 7:00 p.m., on 
ArapahoeGov.com/townhall
, as well as on the County’s 
Facebook
 page. The recorded event will be posted online following the meeting. Callers may also listen in and ask questions during the town hall by dialing 
1-855-436-3656
, and County officials also will call its entire list of land lines and cell phones beginning at 7 p.m.
Tri-County Health Department officials will provide updates on the status of the virus in the three-county area, which serves more than 1.5 million residents. They will also provide information about proactive measures being taken to maximize community safety and other fundamental information such as: what is the transmission risk; what are the best actions individuals and businesses can take right now; what are the latest policy actions from state and federal officials, and more. The bulk of the session will be dedicated to taking questions from the tri-county audience. In keeping with the current social distancing guidelines, the representative from each county and from Tri-County Health will be participating remotely.
For more information about the event, visit 
ArapahoeGov.com/townhall
.
 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1547


 
Arapahoe County closes county facilities to the public 
from March 17-27 due to COVID-19 concerns
Employees expected to report to work Tuesday; 
essential county services will continue during closure
Littleton, CO—March 16, 2020—The Arapahoe County Board of County Commissioners has closed all county facilities to the public effective Tuesday, March 17, 2020, through at least March 27, 2020. This closure is consistent with guidelines issued by the White House. There are number of 
services available online
; essential county operations will continue during this closure. The Board of County Commissioners will hold their regularly scheduled public hearing Tuesday and assess 
future meetings
 going forward.
The 
18
th
 Judicial District Court
 is closed on Tuesday, March 17 and Wednesday, March 18, 2020 to determine future schedules and activities. More information will be posted at 
www.courts.state.co.us
.
“Our top priority is the health and safety of the community,” said Commissioner Nancy N. Sharpe, chair of the board. “Because of the high volume of residents who use our facilities, we want to ensure we are doing our part to help reduce the spread of COVID-19 while still providing the essential services our community relies on.”
County employees are required to report to work as normally scheduled tomorrow. Going forward, county departments and offices will maintain reduced staffing levels to support essential county operations while other employees will work from home.
On March 14, the Board of County Commissioners issued a 
local emergency declaration
 to unlock resources, organize county response strategies and provide additional assistance for municipalities that are dealing with COVID-19. The declaration allows the county to support the work of Tri-County Health in managing the health crisis.


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1535


 
Arapahoe County today issued a local emergency declaration to unlock resources, organize county response strategies and provide additional assistance for municipalities that are dealing with COVID-19, the coronavirus.
To date, Arapahoe County has six presumptive positive cases and is working with Tri-County Health to provide resources, information and direction to the more than 650,000 residents in Arapahoe County. The declaration is authorized for seven days at which point the county could extend it for a set time period.
“During an emergency, which includes a pandemic, the county is charged with taking the lead in coordinating efforts,” said Board Chair Nancy Sharpe. “This action was not taken lightly but it is the necessary trigger for that to happen. This allows Arapahoe County to direct all possible resources to help manage the response at the appropriate level and improves access to a limited supply chain.”
Arapahoe County Sheriff Tyler Brown affirmed that the declaration is a necessary step in taking a measured response to the pandemic.
“This declaration helps provide the county the necessary—and absolutely critical—resources needed to keep our collective community safe in a coordinated response,” said Brown. “Our efforts can be focused on providing additional public health and safety measures while also fully supporting the work of Tri-County Health in managing this crisis. Keeping our residents safe is our absolute top priority.”
Although most individuals affected by COVID-19 will experience mild flu-like symptoms, some will have more serious symptoms and require hospitalization. Response and containment efforts will draw upon available local, state and county resources, which could strain supply chains and cause delays in delivery or execution. The emergency declaration allows county officials to authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance as necessary and better coordinate with the 13 municipalities within Arapahoe County.
Last week, the county opened its Emergency Operations Center, which is the central clearinghouse for critical incident management. The EOC coordinates efforts with Tri-County Health and other local, state and national agencies to direct operations, resources and personnel to deal with incidents such as the coronavirus.
On Wednesday, Arapahoe County joined forces with Tri-County Health and Adams and Douglas Counties to provide a virtual town hall where residents in the tri-county area asked questions and received answers from health experts about COVID-19. More than 1.5 million people live in the tri-county area. 
A recording of the town hall is available on the 
County website
, the 
County Facebook page
 and the 
County YouTube page
. A Spanish-language version 
is also available.
.
For information on county efforts related to COVID-19, visit the 
Arapahoe County website
.
 


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1521


 
Residents and business owners are invited to submit questions to Tri-County Health, in advance of and during live virtual meeting. 
On Wednesday, March 11, 7– 8:30 p.m., 
Douglas
, 
Adams
 and 
Arapahoe
 Counties will host a joint COVID-19 Virtual Town Hall to discuss the latest developments about the coronavirus and how area residents should prepare for it.
All residents are invited to submit their questions to our 
COVID-19 survey page
 ahead of the event
.
 This will help officials from each county, and from Tri-County Health, to learn more about some of the most frequently asked COVID-19 questions in their communities, and to have the opportunity to research the answers before the event. Participants also will have the opportunity to ask questions during the 90-minute town hall.
The participating Tri-County Health Department officials are:
John Douglas, executive director;
Bernadette Ann Albanese, medical epidemiologist; and
Michele Askenazi, MPH, CHES, the department’s director of emergency preparedness, response, and communicable disease surveillance.
These officials will provide updates on the status of the virus in the three-county area, as well as information about proactive measures being taken to maximize community safety and other fundamental information, including what is the transmission risk of COVID-19, what are the best actions individuals and businesses can take right now, and more. Officials from Adams, Arapahoe, and Douglas counties will also be on hand to answer questions about their specific jurisdictions.
How to Join the Virtual Town Hall
NOTICE: President Trump is addressing the nation at 7 p.m. We have decided to stream his address at the start of our virtual town hall and then commence with our event directly following. 
The meeting will air live from 7-8:30 p.m., Wednesday, March 11. 
At the time of the event you can join the virtual town hall by:
Phone: 
Dial 1-855-436-3656 to listen in and ask questions
Website:
 Watch at 
arapahoegov.com/townhall
 and ask questions
Social Media:
 Watch on Facebook at 
facebook.com/arapahoecounty
 or on YouTube at 
youtu.be/HAc1V6K7it0
En español:
 
livestream.com/loclyzmedia/covid19townhall
The recorded event will be posted online at 
arapahoegov.com/townhall 
following the meeting.
Tri-County Health Department
 serves more than 1.5 million people in Adams, Arapahoe and Douglas Counties and is the largest local public health agency in the state.


Scraping from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HAc1V6K7it0







              COVID-19
              










Get the latest information from the CDC about COVID-19.




LEARN MORE




Scraping from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ftdi1Gi39sM







              COVID-19
              










Get the latest information from the CDC about COVID-19.




LEARN MORE




Scraping from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HAc1V6K7it0







              COVID-19
              










Get the latest information from the CDC about COVID-19.




LEARN MORE




Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/CivicAlerts.aspx?CID=1


--------------------------------------------


Scraping from https://www.arapahoegov.com/covid19






County buildings are reopening on a staggered schedule and with restrictions. 
Please do not visit County buildings (which include County Motor Vehicle services) without reading the "Reopening Updates" Section below. Most in-person visits are by appointment only.
Arapahoe County under Safer-at-Home Order
Arapahoe County is following the state’s Safer-at-Home order at the direction of the 
Tri-County Health Department
 (TCHD). This means that Critical Businesses can remain open, and many non-Critical Businesses can begin to open, with some restrictions. 
Read the full press release
Safer at Home overview and guidelines
Safer at Home FAQs
Guidance and support for businesses
Unincorporated Arapahoe County Temporary Outdoor Seating Variance
Safer-at-Home Fast Facts
Critical businesses are still open.
Non-critical businesses are open with restrictions.
Stay at home as much as possible.
Practice good hygiene. Wash your hands frequently and don’t touch your face.
Wear a face covering or mask when you leave your home.
Connect with neighbors and loved ones virtually.
County Building Reopening Updates
Arapahoe County has begun reopening 
select buildings
 and services on a staggered schedule. At this time, 
most services 
are only
 available by appointment
 except where designated. 
All dates 
are
 subject to change. 
Read the full press release
Please note
,
 you will be 
asked 
to 
wear a cloth face covering or non-medical mask
 when visiting County facilities. You will also be asked to practice social distancing 
and keep at least 6-feet away from others. Markers on the floors and walls will help 
guide you. 
Watch this 
short 
Reopening Facilities
 video
 on what to expect when visiting. 
Details by Department and Service Follow:
Arapahoe/Douglas Works! Workforce Center
A/D Works! Call center: 303-636-1160
In-person visits to Altura Plaza are
 by appointment only. 
The Workforce Center is taking calls from all locations. 
Staff are working online, one-on-one, with job seekers and businesses
,
 a
nd they’re
 presenting online classes to assist in developing skills for job searching. Visit the 
A/D Works! Website
 to access available services.
Assessor’s Office
Administration Building
 o
ffice
s
 
in Littleton
 opens May 18; Altura Plaza offices open May 26
Telephone hours of service: 303-795-4600; Monday-Friday, 7:30 a.m.- 5 p.m.
In-person hours of service by appointment only
, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m.
A drop box has been installed outside the Administration Building for document submissions.
A temporary drop box is available in the lobby of Altura Plaza, near the guard station.
Appointment-only services for:
Ownership changes
Mobile home transfers
Senior/veteran’s exemptions
Research
General Questions
Valuation protests will be heard by phone appointment only
Civil Unions – see Clerk & Recorder’s Office
Clerk & Recorder’s Office
Update 7/14/2020: 
The Aurora Motor Vehicle Office is temporarily closed through Friday, July 17 for deep cleaning after an employee tested positive for COVID-19. Other branches remain open to appointments. 
Read the full press release
.
In-person hours of service are available 
by appointment only
 and can be made for all our branches (Littleton, Centennial, Aurora, and Byers). 
Appointments are available 
Monday-Friday, 7 a.m. – 4 p.m.
 and can be made online for:
Motor Vehicle 
registration, license plates and motor vehicle titles
Recorder: legal documents, marriage licenses, civil unions
If you need assistance with 
Marriage Licenses
, please visit the 
Marriage License web page
 for special instructions.
Elections:
 To 
check or update your voter registration information, visit: 
ArapahoeVotes.com/my-voter-info
Voter Services appointments available
Before making an appointment, please note:
No driver’s license appointments at this time
. Customers will need to visit a 
s
tate
 office for this service. 
Customers will be limited to 
2 transactions (2 vehicles) per appointment
 time slot.
In-person visits are limited to two people maximum per appointment.
 
Cloth face coverings or masks 
are required
.
The 
Byers branch does not have Dealer Appointments available.
 Dealers can make an appointment at another office to drop off, or mail their documents in to Littleton.
Make an appointment with our online scheduling tool
Colorado State University Extension
CSU Extension 
is 
open 
by
 appointment only
. P
lease
 call 303-730-1920 
to 
schedule
.
Colorado
 Master Gardeners 
is 
available via phone at 303-730-1920 or email: 
mastergardener@arapahoegov.com
.
More info at the 
Arapahoe County-CSU Extension website
Elections – see Clerk and Recorder’s Office
Fairgrounds and Park
The Arapahoe County Fairgrounds and Park 
is
 closed until further notice, 
and the difficult decision has been made to cancel the 
2020 Arapahoe County Fair
.
Community Resources
Arapahoe Plaza offices open May 18.
 
Most programs and services are being offered online or 
by
 appointment only
. 
Housing and Community Development Services
For Emergency Rent Assistance, call 303-738-8061 or email 
cshropshire@arapahoegov.com
 to determine eligibility. For other low-income housing needs and information, call 
303-738-8040.
Judicial Services
 
In-person case supervision resumes 
by appointment only
;
 no walk-in services until further notice. To schedule an appointment, call 720-874-3350 or email 
pretrial@arapahoegov.com
 or 
comm
unityservice@arapahoegov.com
. 
Senior Resources
 
Grocery shopping and prescription pick-up assistance available for seniors 60+ and 
for 
those with disability. 
For
 eligibility, call 303-738-8080 and leave a message. 
Call 303-738-8080 for connections to additional assistance/other services.
Weatherization
 
In-home services have resumed. Call 303-636-1982 for 
eligibility and
 information. 
18
th
 Judicial District
Jury trials are postponed through July 3
, 2020
Public access to Arapahoe Plaza and Arapahoe County Judicial Center beginning May 18.
Limited courtroom operations at Arapahoe Plaza and Arapahoe County Judicial Center through July 3. As much as possible, court proceedings will be conducted by video or phone.
Please visit the 
18th Judicial District website
 for details.
Human Services
Human Services’ main office
 at 
CentrePoint
 Plaza (
14980 E Alameda Dr, Aurora, CO 80012)
 and its 
satellite office at Arapahoe Plaza (
1690 W Littleton Blvd, Littleton, CO 80120)
 have reopened to the public.
Hours of service: 
Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m., 
mostly by appointment.
 Walk-in services available with strict social distancing protocols. 
Masks are required. 
Please call ahead before visiting: 
303
-636-1130
, Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Community Support Services
:
 
303-636-1170
Colorado PEAK
:
 Apply online at 
www.Colorado.gov/PEAK
Colorado Child Care Assistance Program
, 
Financial Assistance
, 
Food assistance
, 
Heat and energy assistance
, 
Medical assistance
Colorado PEAK is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week, on your smartphone, tablet or computer. The state portal is safe and secure, which means your personal information is protected.
Colorado Works
 
Emergency Disaster Program
: 
Arapahoe County families in need of emergency assistance during COVID-19
 may qualify for short-term, state-sponsored financial assistance
. A
pply through 
Colorado PEAK
.
Eligibility
:
Family’s annual gross income must be below $75,000 combined
The household must contain at least one child age 18 or younger
Family must present a significant need for services directly related to the COVID-19 emergency
Family must be legally present in the U.S.
Assistance may include, but is not limited to, the following types:
Purchase or lease of shelter
Transportation (including car repairs and purchase)
Non-covered medical expenses
Work-related supplies that were lost or damaged
Counseling services
Non-medical mental health services
Child Support Services
: 
call
 303-752-8900 or email 
childsupport@arapahoegov.com
Establishing, enforcing or modifying Child Support Orders, accepting Child Support payments and other services.
Child Support Payments: 
Please contact the 
Colorado Family Support Registry
 by calling 1-800-374-6558.
Child Custody, Visitation, Child Support Records, or Hearings: 
Please contact the 
18th Judicial District Courts
 by calling 303-645-6600.
Child and Adult Protection Services
:
 
303-636-1589
C
hild and Adult abuse h
otline
:
 303-636-1750
 
Appointment-only for services including
 foster care, adoption and adolescent/youth in conflict services, community prevention and development programs, Listening to the Needs of Kids (LINKS) meetings and parenting time visitations.
Clients will have access to paperwork pick-up or drop-off, phone to call center, copy machine available inside lobby.
Payments of child support monthly orders, benefit repayment plans (Claims), etc., continue to be accepted at the 
TouchPay
 Kiosk located in the vestibule at CenterPoint and online at 
www.Touchpayonline.com
Community resources near you: 
www.ArapaSOURCE.org
Find services in and around Arapahoe County that support you and your family. Categories include: a
ging services, child care and parent resources, clothing, dental assistance, disability services, domestic violence, employment and job training, family services and support, food assistance, general and financial assistance, legal services, medical assistance, mental health services
, s
helters and housing assistance
, s
ubstance abuse
, t
ransportation services
, v
eterans services
 and v
ision assistance
.
 
Human Resources
Human Resources is currently closed to the general public; however, staff are on hand to answer calls at 
303-795-4482
 and via email at 
humanresources@arapahoegov.com
 or 
view open positions within the County
Marriage Licenses – see Clerk and Recorder
Motor Vehicle – see Clerk and Recorder
Open Spaces
Lima Office
 opens May 18. In-person hours of services are 
by appointment only
, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. Appointments can be made by calling 720-874-6540. All Arapahoe County trails are open; however, visitors should abide by social distancing guidelines, wear a face cover or mask and follow proper hygiene 
before and 
after using public spaces.
Public Trustee
The Arapahoe County Public Trustee office is open to the public 
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY. 
If you need to deliver
 payments 
or
 documents, 
please contact the office to make arrangements.
Email: 
eforeclosures@arapahoegov.com
 Phone: 
303-730-0071
Public Works & Development
Lima Street office open 
by appointment only 
beginning May 18. 
 
Call 
720-874-6500 
Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m.
 
Use 
Citizen Access
 
for 
Building
, 
Engineering
 
and 
Planning
 
cases, permits, applications and more.
 
Building: I
nspections
 
(residential & commercial) have resumed and will be scheduled based on site-specific conditions. Info at 
www.arapahoegov.com/building
, 720-874-6600 or 
pwdbuildingsupport@arapahoegov.com
 
Planning: 
720-874-6650 for planning services or use 
Citizen Access
 to check project status
 
Zoning: 
720-874-6711 or email 
zoning@arapahoegov.com
 for zoning, subdivision and weed regulations and enforcement
 
Engineering: 
720-874-6500 for general inquiries or 
Citizen Access
 to check project status
 
Animal control
: 720-874-6750 or email 
pwdanimalcontrol@arapahoegov.com
 for field response, complaints, reports or other questions
 
Records requests:
 720-874-6500 or email 
PWDRecords@ArapahoeGov.com
 for unincorporated parts of the County
 
Mapping
: 720-874-6686 for services
 
Road & Bridge
: 720-874-ROAD (7623) for questions about current projects and/or request for service
 
Transportation/Traffic
: call 720-874-6500 for questions about current projects or traffic service requests
 
Sheriff’s Office
The Sheriff’s Office headquarters is open by appointment only.
Appointments are being taken only for Concealed Handgun Program (CHP) and fingerprinting
. Applicants can call 720-874-3929 to schedule; appointments are available Monday-Thursday, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. 
Anyone seeking to renew concealed handgun permits are 
urged to do so online
.
View the Sheriff’s Office 
Policies & Directives
.
Treasurer
Administration Building office in Littleton opens May 18.
Telephone hours of service: 303-
795-4550; Monday-Friday, 
8 a.m.-4 
p.m.
Appointments
 can be made by phone at 303-795-4550 for select transactions that must be completed in person. 
No walk-ins. 
A drop box has been installed outside of the west side the Administration Building, for document and payment submissions.
 








