


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news





Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/weld_county_reaches_c_o_v_i_d-19_testing_goal


Weld County reaches COVID-19 testing goalPosted on 07/08/2020Six weeks after the county obtained COVID-19 test kits and organized a series of testing events health care providers, public and private agencies, and the county collectively reached the goal of testing 10 percent of the county’s population.
Weld County Government conducted four drive-thru community testing events in early June. As a result, 286 individuals were tested with only nine testing positive for COVID-19. The Weld County Department of Public Health and Environment along with the Weld County Emergency Operations Center (EOC) analyzed and reviewed the results and recommended future testing by the county be focused on targeted testing of hotspots and outbreaks.
“As there are now many sites throughout Weld County offering COVID-19 testing to those who need it, our testing efforts will focus on specific areas of concern so as to help contain the spread of the virus,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman.
For a list of locations offering testing throughout Weld County, visit www.weldhealth.org, click on “2019 Novel Coronavirus” then click on the “COVID-19 testing” box under the data map.
Keep up the preventative measures
As always, it’s important to remember to continue adhering to preventative measures to protect yourself and those around you from COVID-19 by doing these five simple things: Wash your hands frequently and don’t touch your face; clean frequently touched or used surfaces often; maintain a 6-foot distance between individuals or family groups; cover your cough; stay home if you are feeling sick.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/ag_remains_focus_of_102nd_weld_county_fair


Ag remains focus of 102nd Weld County FairPosted on 07/07/2020Despite the challenges presented by COVID-19, the Weld County Board of Commissioners is proud to announce that the 102nd Weld County Fair will be held this summer – albeit a bit differently than ever before.
“The board felt it was imperative, as the number one agricultural county in the state, that we find a way to hold the fair for the youth who have worked hard preparing the projects for this event,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman.
This year, the fair will be open to exhibitors and their families so as to allow for the completion of 4-H and FFA projects. General public and vendors will not be able to attend this year nor will there be open class exhibits.
“We are disappointed that circumstances don’t allow for our usual celebration of the fair this year,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer, coordinator for the Extension Department. “However, we are committed to the young people, who are the future leaders in agriculture in this county and want to make sure they have a chance to compete.”
Dates of the Weld County Fair remain the same – July 24 through August 3. Several livestock shows will be livestreamed online via Barn Media. Visit https://livestream.com/barnmedia/2020wcf to participate. Shows are as follows:
•	Market & Breeding Goat Show - Wednesday, July 29 at 9:00 a.m.
•	Dairy Cattle Show – Thursday, July 30 at 8:00 a.m.
•	Market & Breeding Sheep Show – Thursday, July 30 at 9:00 a.m.
•	Beef Showmanship – Thursday, July 30 at 5:00 p.m.
•	Market Beef Show – Friday, July 31 at 8:00 a.m.
•	Breeding Beef Show – Friday, July 31 at 1:00 p.m.
•	Market & Breeding Swine Show – Saturday, August 1 at 8:00 a.m.
“The Weld County Fair remains a traditional event showcasing Weld County’s agricultural roots and heritage,” said Freeman. “We’re not letting COVID-19 take this tradition away.”
For more information about the Weld County Fair, visit www.weldcountyfair.com.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/county_c_d_b_g_program_to_help_communities_thrive


County CDBG program to help communities thrivePosted on 07/07/2020Once again, Weld County is leading an effort to unite 25 municipalities to benefit residents by administering a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. This effort has garnered Intergovernmental Agreements (IGAs) with 24 municipalities so far.
Don Sandoval, Weld County CDBG Manager, administers the program, which is designed to provide funding for various improvement projects based on the needs of Weld County municipalities. Projects may include improvements to and implementation of water systems, streets, community centers, food banks, shelters, health clinics, etc. Sandoval’s main goal this year is to submit the Weld County consolidated plan and annual action plans to meet requirements for funding of the program from 2021 to 2025. Sandoval is currently working with all Weld County municipalities to complete this process.
“We are excited to have the opportunity for the county to receive funds in helping our communities thrive,” Weld County Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman said. “This is an invaluable program for Weld County, ensuring our towns have the resources needed to excel moving forward.”
Weld County’s CDBG program will be funded through an entitlement allocation from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. An entitlement allocation is given to counties considered to be urban — meaning a population of 200,000 or more. Weld County has more than 300,000 residents. Allocation for the county is expected to be received in early 2021, at an annual estimated entitlement of approximately $1 million.
Municipalities included in Weld County’s CDBG program consist of Ault, Dacono, Eaton, Erie, Evans, Firestone, Ft. Lupton, Frederick, Garden City, Gilcrest, Grover, Hudson, Johnstown, Keenesburg, Kersey, LaSalle, Lochbuie, Mead, Milliken, Nunn, Pierce, Platteville, Severance and Windsor. Sandoval is just waiting on one final IGA from New Raymer. Not included in the approved CDBG agreements are the municipalities of Greeley, Longmont and Thornton because these are entitlement cities – meaning each has more than 50,000 residents. Brighton and Northglenn are not included because they are a part of Adams County’s entitlement. Finally, Timnath and Berthoud sit largely in Larimer County; therefore, they are not included in Weld County’s CDBG program.
In prior years, individual municipalities or the county had to apply for a CDBG grant from DOLA for a specific project. Now, municipalities will work with Sandoval in the identification of projects and allocation of program funds to complete these projects.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/seven_boards_and_commissions_have_openings


Seven boards and commissions have openingsPosted on 07/06/2020County residents interested in unique volunteer opportunities that include meeting new people, learning new things and contributing ideas that can strengthen the services provided by Weld County Government are encouraged to apply to one of seven volunteer advisory boards and commissions seeking new members.​
The Board of Public Health has one opening in Advisory Board District 1 — school districts RE-9,12 and 11J, which include the towns of Ault, New Raymer, Buckingham, Grover and Hereford. On the Board of Public Health, learn more about Health Department programs, health issues impacting Weld County, and conduct hearings to consider septage applications and on-site Wastewater Treatment System variances.
Those with construction experience are encouraged to apply to the Building Trades Advisory Committee, which currently has three openings. There is also an opening on the Weld County Building Code Board of Appeals, which helps interpret the Weld County Building Code by listening to and deciding upon appeals by building officials around the county. The board then makes its recommendation on those appeals to the county commissioners.
The Extension Advisory Council is seeking a crop sciences representative to provide feedback to assist in the planning and implementation of the crop sciences projects offered by the council.
The award-winning Workforce Development Board has three openings. Members are charged with identifying regional workforce needs, developing and implementing systems in response to those needs and providing overall direction for Employment Services of Weld County.
The Greeley Housing Authority has openings for two Weld County representatives. Members supervise the administration and financial polices of the housing authority, which provides housing assistance for many Weld County families.
Issues facing older Americans are discussed on the Area Agency on Aging (AAA) which has one opening. Members learn about several different programs offered to older Americans. They provide feedback on various issues facing older Americans including health care, transportation and housing needs and give ideas on how county services can best meet those needs. 
While a background or experience in certain fields may be helpful, it isn’t required. To learn more and apply, visit https://tinyurl.com/WCBoardsCommissions-openings. Applications will be accepted through July 17. For questions or more information, contact Karla Ford at (970) 336-7204 or email kford@weldgov.com.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/board_of_equalization_now_accepting_appeals


Board of Equalization Now Accepting AppealsPosted on 07/06/2020The Weld County Board of Commissioners passed a resolution officially convening the County Board of Equalization (CBOE). 

After initially appealing the Notice of Valuation (NOV) with the Assessor's Office, if property owners are not satisfied by the subsequent value listed in the Notice of Determination (NOD), mailed by the Assessor's Office, an appeal of the NOD may then be submitted to the Weld County Board of Equalization. 

Appeals are now being accepted by the County Board of Equalization. Here are five ways you can submit your appeal:

•	Online: Visit https://www.co.weld.co.us/apps1/cboe/ to appeal the County Board of Equalization online.
•	By mail: Appeals may be mailed to the attention of the County Board of Equalization, 1150 O Street, P.O. Box 758, Greeley, CO 80631.
•	In person: Come to the Weld County Administration Building, Clerk to the Board's Office, 1150 O Street, Greeley, CO 80631.
•	Fax: Appeals may be faxed to the attention of the County Board of Equalization at (970) 336-7233.
•	Email: Appeals may be emailed to the County Board of Equalization at weld-cboe@weldgov.com. 

If you wish to mail, deliver in-person, fax, or email your appeal, please include your signed and dated NOD, or a signed and dated letter with your name, property address or location, account number or parcel number, phone number and email address, and the reason you are appealing your value. 

The Weld County Board of Equalization cannot accept telephone appeals. All appeals must be in writing and will receive the same diligent review, regardless of the method of submission.

No late appeals will be considered. If submitting an appeal by mail, it is recommended that you retain proof of mailing. Please visit our website for information about appeal deadlines.

Learn more about Weld County’s Board of Equalization at https://www.weldgov.com/departments/commissioners/county_board_of_equalization.



Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/weld_county_to_partner_with_evans_on_road_project


Weld County to partner with Evans on road projectPosted on 07/02/2020An intergovernmental agreement (IGA) approved by the Weld County Board of Commissioners will “…open up economic opportunities,” according to the City of Evans Mayor Brian Rudy. Rudy addressed the Board of Commissioners during a recent board meeting. The county has officially approved the IGA for roadway improvements for 23rd Ave. between 37th St. and 42nd St. last week; the City of Evans will vote on the IGA July 7. Both the city and the county share jurisdiction in that area.

This project will extend 23rd Ave, which currently dead ends at 37th St., south to 42nd St. thereby creating a new roadway for commuters. Weld County will contribute $2 million to help pay for the project as it benefits transportation in the area. The project will occur in two phases: construction of a two-lane road in 2020 and expansion to a four-lane arterial standard roadway over the next couple of years after significant utility relocation work is completed. Evans will agree to design and manage the project as well as commence annexation proceedings for the entirety of 23rd Ave.   

“It took us awhile to get here,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer, who has worked with Rudy for several months on the project. “The improvements will benefit both drivers and businesses and will hopefully spur economic growth for the City of Evans.”

The agreement between the two entities will also addresses future discussions regarding the formation of an Urban Renewal Area (RUA) to facilitate reimbursement costs for the project or to help facilitate development in the blighted areas in the vicinity of 23rd Ave.

“It’s always exciting when governments can partner on projects that are truly a benefit to our communities,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/five_key_things_to_remember_about_c_o_v_i_d-19


Five key things to remember about COVID-19Posted on 07/01/2020As the state continues to work through obstacles presented by COVID-19, Weld County wants to make clear that the county will not be applying for a variance from the state nor will the county develop further reopening guidelines for businesses or events. 

In a memo dated June 1, 2020, Weld County Attorney Bruce Barker outlined the legal reasons upon which Weld County has taken its position with regard to variances. The memo can be found on the Weld County Health Department COVID-19 web page under “Weld County Information”.  The memo outlines the county’s belief that because of the lack of adherence to the emergency rule-making process, as directed by Colorado State Statutes, Public Health Order 20-28 is not legally binding and therefore the county will not request a variance from PHO 20-28 “because it is of no legal effect.”

That said, many businesses, events, non-profits and even individual residents have asked the county health department for guidelines as they look to reopen or initiate certain activities. Just as Weld County is not applying for a variance, it is not developing specific guidance or giving approval to individual plans. Rather, the county is trying to support businesses with reminders about common sense approaches to reduce the spread of COVID-19. 

Whether you own a mom-and-pop ice cream shop or the largest restaurant in town, whether you work in a small retail store or a large company, whether you want to host a family reunion or a parade or festival, protecting yourself, your employees and your customers from COVID-19 really comes down to five basic tenets:

1.	Wash your hands frequently; don’t touch your face
2.	Clean frequently touched or used surfaces often
3.	Maintain a 6’ distance between individuals or family groups
4.	Cover your cough
5.	Stay home if you are feeling sick

How you meet those tenets is at your discretion. Whether you’re an employee or a shopper, a business owner or restaurant diner, an event planner or a festivalgoer, implementing those tenets will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 in our communities.

Please note, public health cannot anticipate every unique situation. The public should stay informed and act based on common sense and wise judgment that will protect health and support economic revitalization. For detailed guidance, please consult the CDC website at www.cdc.org.

While many look for surety during this uncertain time, please understand reducing the spread of COVID-19 comes down to personal responsibility, not government regulation. That said, Weld County reminds the public that restaurant inspections conducted by the county health department will focus on food safety only and commissioners have been informed by the sheriff that Weld County deputies will not respond to COVID-19 related issues.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/weld_governments_unite_for_residents___businesses


Weld governments unite for residents & businessesPosted on 06/24/2020Government entities in Weld County have come together in an impressive way for the benefit of both residents and businesses alike – all 33 government entities in the county unanimously agreed on how Coronavirus (COVID-19) Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act funds will be utilized. 

The collaborative agreement, which had to be solidified before the funds could be distributed, was the result of a few conference calls with municipalities, funding allocation options presented by Weld County Finance Director Don Warden, and assistance from Upstate Colorado with regard to developing a business relief fund, all of which occurred in just under three weeks’ time.  

“To get 33 government entities to agree on anything in that short period of time is pretty amazing,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “It shows the desire of all of our county leaders to bring relief to our residents and businesses.”

Weld County will receive $27.8 million of CARES Act funding, which is to be used to pay for direct expenditures from COVID-19. The county’s portion, since it runs the county health department, the human services department, job services, the county jail, and countywide Office of Emergency Management, as well as purchased the personal protective equipment (PPE) for health and first responder agencies, will be $13,225,838. 

“The county bears the brunt of the expense in a health emergency,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer. “We know our municipalities have incurred costs as well, and it was important to make sure all of our municipalities were made whole after spending funds on COVID-19 related items.” 

The group of municipal leaders and the county agreed to a per capita allocation of the remaining $12,285,290 of CARES Funding. The funds must be used for the relief effort prior to December 30, 2020. As the funding can only be used for Federally approved expenses, the group anticipates not all the funds will be utilized for reimbursements and has agreed to also create a business relief fund. The commissioners already agreed to put the county’s per capita share of funds, $2,314,061, into the business relief fund.

Upstate Colorado will develop the fund structure and application process in the upcoming weeks.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/lawley_appointed_deputy_director


Lawley Appointed Deputy DirectorPosted on 06/23/2020The Weld County Board of Commissioners is proud to announce Mark Lawley as the newly appointed Deputy Director of the Department of Public Health and Environment. Lawley, who has Master’s Degrees in both Public Administration and in Leadership, will manage the day-to-day supervisory operations of the department, while the emergency response to COVID-19 will continue to fall under the Emergency Operations Center, which includes Health Department staff.

“We are confident in Mark’s experience and leadership,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “He will help ensure a smooth transition for employees as they continue work on the emergency response as well as begin incorporating familiar tasks such as restaurant inspections and public health clinic hours.

“Lawley’s experience with the county is lengthy and will serve him well in this new position,” said Freeman.

Lawley, who has been serving as the interim deputy director for the past month, was formerly the CEO and Fire Chief for the Mountain View Fire Protection District from 1981-2017. He also served on the Northern Colorado Medical Center Board as well as the Weld County Planning Commission.

“As everyone looks at what the next few months will bring with regard to duties and staff, Mark will help ensure that while staff working with the Emergency Operations Center continue to have the resources to respond proactively to the health emergency, the rest of the health department staff will be prepared to handle regular business duties in the department,” said Freeman.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/weld_county_takes_a_stand_against_elder_abuse


Weld County takes a stand against elder abusePosted on 06/16/2020Yesterday, in conjunction with the United Nations and prevention organizations around the globe, the Board of Weld County Commissioners proclaimed World Elder Abuse Awareness Day (WEAAD). WEAAD unites communities around the world and raises awareness about the millions of older adults who experience abuse, neglect and exploitation.
Research indicates that one in 10 older adults in the United States are abused each year, and only one in 14 cases of elder abuse are ever reported. A combination of social, economic and psychological factors contributes to elder abuse. The main risks are related to social isolation, lack of access to support and resources, and physical, mental or emotional dependence.
“Elder abuse is a public health and human rights issue,” said Jamie Ulrich, Director of the Department of Human Services. “This proclamation serves as a call-to-action for individuals, organizations and communities to raise awareness about elder abuse, neglect and exploitation. Weld County’s older adults are valued members of society, and it’s our collective responsibility to ensure they live safely and with dignity.”
At Monday’s board meeting, the entire Weld County Adult Protective Services (APS) staff was in attendance. Each rose when their name was called and received a round of applause in recognition of their tireless work within the community of advocating for the protection of the county’s older and vulnerable adults.
“We have an amazing APS team at the Area Agency on Aging that does a tremendous job for our aging population,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer, Coordinator for the Department of Human Services. “You ensure our older adults are able to live and thrive in our communities, making Weld County that much more vibrant. We can’t thank you enough for contributing to improving their safety and well-being.”
Weld County encourages anyone concerned about the safety and well-being of any at-risk adult in Weld County to report to local law enforcement or to the Weld County Adult Protection Hotline at (970) 346-7676. All reports to APS are confidential, including the name of the party who reports the alleged abuse or neglect.
Education and awareness are vital components to the disruption and prevention of elder abuse. APS provides community education on the mistreatment and self-neglect of at-risk adults. Any organization in Weld County interested in scheduling a training can contact the APS Program Supervisor, Jill Colavolpe, at (970) 400-6109. For more information about the Weld County Area Agency on Aging, please visit www.weldaaa.org.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/financial_relief_on_the_way_to_weld_businesses


Financial relief on the way to Weld businessesPosted on 06/15/2020A unanimous vote by the Weld County Board of Commissioners capped a 14-week process to get state approval “to temporarily reduce, waive, or suspend delinquent interest payments for property tax payments.” Governor Jared Polis signed HB 20-1421 into law Sunday morning, June 14.

“The Board began discussing ways to help our local businesses in mid-March when the state was starting to feel the impacts of COVID-19,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “We worked with our treasurer and finance director to brainstorm ways local government could help keep businesses going through this difficult time.”

It was then county commissioners had discussions with local municipalities and school districts. “We needed to make sure everyone was on board with the idea,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer. “We talked through the pros and cons of the proposal and initiated discussions with school districts, other county treasurers and Federico Pena, head of the Governor’s Economic Stabilization and Growth Council. The result was a bill that will help not only businesses in Weld County but also across the state of Colorado.”

The bill effectively allows county commissioners and city councils, with approval from their treasurer, to defer interest payments on delinquent taxes, if those taxes are paid in full by October 1, 2020.

“Our local businesses need help,” said Commissioner Steve Moreno. “This bill allows businesses to manage their cash flow in a way that may help them stay afloat.”

Commissioner Kevin Ross agreed. “For some businesses, this bill may afford them the opportunity to pay staff or prioritize other expenses without the worry that fees and penalties are adding up on their property tax payment,” Ross said. “As a small business owner myself, I know that would be helpful given this state’s current circumstances.”

“This bill was truly a team effort,” said Commissioner James. “A lot of people came to the table to make this happen, including our partners at Upstate Colorado. It’s our hope that this relief helps our local businesses navigate successfully through this unprecedented time.” 





Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/communications_team_wins_award_for_newsletter


Communications team wins award for newsletterPosted on 06/10/2020The Weld County Public Communications team was awarded the “Tech Trailblazer” Award from Granicus, a software company specializing in digital communications for government organizations. 

“Our communications team has done a great job bringing county government information to residents through a variety of platforms,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “Their use of subscriber-based newsletters to provide additional county information to the public has been a great tool for government as we continue to improve and increase our communication platforms.”

The team received the “Tech Trailblazer” award, which according to Granicus, “is the company’s highest honor for leaders in public sector digital transformation. This award, recognizing digital transformation excellence, identifies initiatives that have delivered a profound improvement in government activities, process and/or competencies by transitioning from outdated tech or in-person interactions to modern digital technologies.”

The county publishes several newsletters including the County Roots newsletter, which highlights some of the partnerships, technology and efficiencies county government uses to make government stronger and more effective for residents. 

“There are interesting projects, programs and people within county government that warrant sharing with the public,” said Communications Director Jennifer Finch. “It’s exciting to continue to see more and more people engage with the county through this platform.”

To learn more about the county’s publications and to subscribe, please visit https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/newsletters/county_roots

To read more about the award, please visit https://granicus.com/digital-awards/



Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/june_8_commissioner_telephone_town_hall


June 8 Commissioner Telephone Town HallPosted on 06/02/2020As residents, businesses and local governments continue to adapt to life during a pandemic, the Weld County Board of Commissioners will host a telephone town hall event to update the public on the county’s COVID-19 response. The telephone town hall will be held at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, June 8. Callers can call into the event by dialing 877-229-8493 and entering ID code 119533 or they can stream the audio live at https://www.weldgov.com/departments/commissioners/public_meetings/town_hall.
“We received quite a bit of positive feedback after our May 4 town hall,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “It made sense to do another and update residents on the latest information we have about the COVID-19 emergency response.” Approximately 4,000 people participated in May telephone town hall event, the first such event hosted by the county.
“A lot has happened during the past month,” Freeman said. “The retirement of Dr. Wallace, the testing events, the gradual re-opening of businesses will all be points of discussion, I’m sure.”
Topics for this month’s telephone town hall will include an update on county department services, COVID-19 testing sites and information, changes to the Weld County Fair due to COVID-19, the proposed property tax deferral, and work the county and municipalities are doing regarding CARES Act funding (Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, also known as the CARES Act).
Similar to last time, some residents will receive a pre-recorded call a few days before the event inviting them to join the telephone town hall, but anyone can call the number when the event starts. The telephone town hall format will allow residents to not only listen to the board’s remarks but also ask questions.
Vekeo, the vendor providing the service, accesses phone numbers from Weld County registered voter lists and will randomly select 52,000 phone numbers to call for the event. All county residents, however, are invited to call in a participate.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/free_c_o_v_i_d-19_drive-thru_testing_next_week


Free COVID-19 drive-thru testing next weekPosted on 05/22/2020The availability of COVID-19 testing in Weld County is increasing as Weld County Government will host free community drive-thru testing events in early June. The events, in combination with those led by health care providers and other public and private agencies throughout Weld County, are part of a goal to collectively test 10 percent of the county’s population by July 18.

People who are experiencing symptoms and asymptomatic people who are in close contact with a person who has tested positive for COVID-19 are eligible for testing. A doctor’s note is not required, and those wanting to be tested must be at least 18 years of age and register by 3 p.m. the day before an event. 

Registration opens seven days prior to each event and can be completed by visiting www.weldhealth.org. 

The first four drive-thru events will be from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the following locations:

•	June 1 in Fort Lupton at the Southeast County Services Complex, located at 2950 9th St. Registration is open from May 25 - May 31.

•	June 3 in Briggsdale at Briggsdale School, located at 515 Leslie St. Registration is open from May 27- June 2.

•	June 5 in Severance at Severance High School, located at 1200 Hidden Valley Pkwy. Registration is open from May 29-June 4.

•	June 8 in Firestone at the Southwest County Services Complex, located at 4209 Weld County Road 24 ½. Registration is open from June 1- June 7.

•	More dates and locations to follow.

Securing enough test kits for countywide testing has been difficult, but the Weld County Office of Emergency Management (OEM) has been persistent in asking the state’s Emergency Operations Center for testing kits since mid-March. These events in June reflect the first time since the beginning of the pandemic Weld County has obtained enough test kits to test the general population.

As stay-at-home orders ease, expanded testing remains critically important. Robust testing, combined with continued contact tracing, allows Weld County Health Department staff to monitor community spread of the virus. Additionally, these events help meet the recommended testing levels in Weld County.

“We know that COVID-19 test availability is important to our residents, and our staff has been working diligently to expand testing opportunities,” Weld County Chair Mike Freeman said. “Now that we have tests for widespread community testing, we look forward to testing those who need it and using that data to gain more knowledge about COVID-19 in our county.”

Each drive-thru testing event will follow specific procedures. Participants will follow the steps below once they arrive at a testing site:

1.	To be tested, individuals must be at least 18 years old.

2.	The participant will enter the entry station checkpoint with their windows rolled up. When instructed, the participant will show staff a photo identification with an email confirmation of their reference ID and appointment time through their closed window at the security gate checkpoint.

3.	Once staff confirms the appointment, the participant will be directed to the Admission Station checkpoint and show identification and reference ID to the Admission Coordinator through the driver’s side window. Staff will retrieve requisition, label, specimen bag and testing materials. The Admission Coordinator will verify that the participant’s name and date of birth is correct. If correct, the Admission Coordinator will mark the car window with a sticker showing the participant’s position in the vehicle and attach the specimen bag to the car.

4.	The participant is moved to the Sample Collection Bay where a swab is taken and collected. Once the swab is collected, the participant is directed to the exit. 

5.	Participants will be notified of results by phone within 24 hours.

For more information on these testing events, or to register, go to www.weldhealth.org. Additionally, be sure to follow Weld County’s Facebook and Twitter pages for updates.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/c_o_v_i_d-19_deaths_in_weld_county_drop


Following CDPHE's reporting changes, COVID-19 deaths in Weld County dropPosted on 05/22/2020Following the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment’s (CDPHE) announcement regarding a change in their reporting of COVID-19 deaths, Weld County has begun the process of updating the data on the Weld County COVID-19 data dashboard, which should be completed by early next week. The result will be a decrease in the number of deaths in Weld County from COVID-19. 

Earlier this week, CDPHE announced they would begin reporting deaths in two ways: 

1.	Deaths among people with COVID-19: represents the total number of deaths reported among people who have COVID-19, but COVID-19 may not have been the cause of death. 

2.	People who died from COVID-19: total number of deaths whose death was attributed to COVID-19 as indicated on a death certificate.

“According to our coroner, who had already been keeping track of deaths of individuals from COVID-19 separate from deaths of individuals with COVID-19, the total number of deaths from COVID-19 in Weld County will decrease quite a bit,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. Prior to their change this week, however, CDPHE’s direction to local health departments was to combine the deaths from and deaths with COVID-19.

In discussions with the coroner, the emergency operations center and the joint information center on Wednesday, when the total number of deaths stated on the county’s data dashboard was 126, the Board learned that number would drop to 89 deaths from the COVID-19 virus; a decrease of approximately 30%.

The coroner’s office is currently reviewing death certificates for additional information (age, gender and date of death) to provide to the GIS department which who update the county’s dashboard to reflect this change in reporting. 

The county will also remove “suspect results” from the number of reported cases. A suspect result occurs when a positive antibody test is reported into the Colorado Electronic Disease Reporting System (CEDRS). The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention states that these antibodies likely resulted from an infection with SARS-CoV-2, or possibly a related coronavirus. CDPHE is not including suspect results in their COVID-19 case counts. In order to remain consistent with state reporting, Weld County will remove all suspect results. This change will decrease Weld County’s overall case count by approximately 100 cases. 

Changes in this data will be seen on the Weld County Data Dashboard the week of May 25. https://www.weldgov.com/departments/health_and_environment/2019_novel_coronavirus/covid19_data




Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/county_s_p_p_e_collection_effort_continues


County's PPE collection effort continuesPosted on 05/21/2020Every day, the logistics section of the Weld County Office of Emergency Management (OEM) continues its work taking calls from health care agencies and first responders looking for masks, isolation and surgical gowns, vinyl and nitrile gloves and other forms of personal protective equipment (PPE) needed to protect themselves as they treat those impacted by COVID-19.
As part of that effort, in March, logistics began collecting PPE donations from different individuals and organizations throughout Weld County. Those donations, combined with more than $477,000 of PPE purchased by Weld County, has helped fulfill 318 resource requests for 117 agencies.
But demand remains high, and the PPE collection is continuing. There is a continued need for both masks and isolation gowns. These items can be new or homemade. In fact, homemade items following guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), can be particularly valuable.
“Our biggest request is for long sleeve isolation and surgical gowns that are open in the back,” said Denise Bradshaw, Weld EOC Logistics Section Chief. “We’ll certainly accept packaged isolation gowns, but they are disposable. We are hoping to get some homemade cotton-polyester gowns because those can be washed and reused.”

CDC guidance on face coverings
CDC information on iso gowns (under contingency capacity strategies)

Donating PPE may be as easy as saving an empty bottle of hand sanitizer or hand soap. OEM has secured a large supply of hand sanitizer in one-gallon containers but needs smaller containers to place the sanitizer in to fill resource requests. Anyone with empty four to six-ounce spray or travel bottles is asked to consider donating them.
Health care providers can also aid in the conservation of N95 masks as used ones can now be mailed to the Battelle Systems Decontamination System which has been installed in Adams County, Colorado. Battelle will decontaminate used masks from heath care facilities as long as they are not broken or torn and free of blood, mucus, lipstick or lip balm. This service is only available to health care providers who fill out an enrollment form at battelle.org/decon. OEM is continuing to look for other decontamination services as well.
“We are appreciative of every organization in our community that’s donated PPE,” Weld County Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman said. “We’re continually looking for ways to increase our PPE to assist those on the frontline, and the public’s continued donations will go a long way in protecting those in Weld County who are helping patients recover and bring an end to this virus.”
To donate, call the Office of Emergency Management at (970) 400-5172 or 5173 between the hours of 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.  on Monday-Friday to arrange a time for your items to be picked up.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/may_is_foster_care_month_


May is Foster Care Month!Posted on 05/14/2020May has been proclaimed as Foster Care Month by the Board of County Commissioners in recognition and appreciation of Weld County foster and kinship caregivers, community organizations and child welfare professionals. 
This month is a special time to acknowledge the tremendous commitment of local foster and kinship families who have opened their hearts and homes to the 338 infants, children and youth currently in county foster and kinship care. It’s also a time to show immense gratitude to the dedicated child welfare professionals who are available and called on 24/7 to support the county’s most vulnerable children, youth and families.
“It’s an honor to make this proclamation,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer, Coordinator for the Department of Human Services. “Thank you to our staff and to our foster parents. Thank you for providing help to these children, providing a family and providing hope. We can’t thank you enough.”
At this week’s board meeting, the Weld County child welfare staff and foster parents in attendance received a round of applause in celebration of their work in building stronger communities and improving the lives of children, youth and families by tirelessly providing advocacy, nurturing and unwavering care.
“Our 86 certified foster parents are such a huge blessing to our community,” said Jamie Ulrich, Director of the Department of Human Services. “They tirelessly work to support the children and youth in their care. Especially in these challenging times, they’re not only caring for children, but also dealing with the added burden of becoming technical experts to work through new online communication methods due to ongoing social distancing measures. It’s a special effort on their part, and we really want to thank them.”
The county’s child welfare staff has been constantly adjusting their outreach methods to deal with COVID-related communication issues. Whether it’s moving the in-person, bi-monthly Welcome Nights to Skype or offering pre-certification training online, foster parent recruitment hasn’t stopped. Support for children, biological families and foster families has continued uninterrupted, while maintaining safe social distancing.
The Weld County Department of Human Services offers two Foster Care Welcome Nights every month for families and individuals who are interested in learning more about foster care, the certification process and other ways to help children, youth and families in need. Visit weldgov.com/go/fostercare or the Weld County Government Facebook page for more information.  


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/repair_on_county_road_49_to_begin_this_week


Repair on county road 49 to begin this weekPosted on 05/13/2020A project designed to enhance safety, stability and efficiency on Weld County Road (WCR) 49 will begin this week after the Weld County Board of Commissioners approved repairs in between the rails of the Union Pacific Railroad crossing north of WCR 54.
North and south bound traffic near the railroad has been reduced to two lanes after deterioration of the railroad’s concrete panels between the concrete and asphalt roadway. Staff from the Department of Public Works met with officials from Union Pacific Railroad to examine the problem, and the recommendation was made to replace the 18” asphalt section with an expansion joint which will create a stronger connection between the concrete panels and the roadway. The expansion joint will also allow the new 11” concrete roadway room to expand and contract during the summer and winter months.
“Since it opened in 2018, county road 49 has been a tremendous success providing the public with a safe and efficient way to travel north and south throughout Weld County,” Weld County Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman said. “As more and more people continue to utilize the road, maintenance projects like this one will occasionally be necessary. We believe this solution is a quick and effective way to ensure that the road continues to meet the demands of travelers now and in the future.”
Union Pacific Railroad will replace the damaged rail panels and Weld County crews will be working with TLM Constructors of Greeley to remove the existing asphalt and ensure the subgrade is stable prior to the installation of the expansion joint. The $43,717 project is being paid for using funds from the Department of Public Works’ 2020 budget. 

For more information about the Department of Public Works, visit https://www.weldgov.com/departments/public_works.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/boards_and_commissions_seek_to_fill_openings


Several boards and commissions seek to fill openingsPosted on 05/12/2020As Weld County Government has gradually reopened, advisory boards and commissions are seeking residents to fill many different openings. There are currently openings on the Board of Public Health, Building Trades Advisory Committee, Child Protection Citizen Review Panel, Juvenile Community Review Board, Planning Commission, Weld County Building Code Board of Appeals and Weld Faith Partnership Council.
Each board and commission opening has a different focus and caters to a different interest. While some positions require experience or a knowledge in a particular field, one trait consistently looked for in applicants is an individual who is eager to offer ideas and solutions to strengthen services provided by Weld County Government.
“Citizen involvement is key to improving the many services we provide,” Weld County Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman said. “Volunteering on a board or commission is a great way to learn more about those services and provide your input on the ways they can be improved to better meet your needs and the needs of fellow residents.” 
Volunteers can also look forward to expanding their personal and professional networks as they will work with others throughout the county and alongside county staff to not only improve services but also gain a greater understanding of how county government operates. With new knowledge gained, residents can serve as advocates for different services to friends, family and those in the community, allowing more people the opportunity to utilize many useful services. 
 Kick off the spring by taking advantage of unique and valuable volunteer opportunities! Find specific information about each board and commission opening at https://tinyurl.com/WCBoardsCommissions-openings. Applications will be accepted through May 26. For questions or more information, contact Karla Ford at (970) 336-7204 or by emailing kford@weldgov.com. 


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/after_25_years__dr__mark_wallace_to_retire


After 25 years, Dr. Mark Wallace to retirePosted on 05/08/2020After 25 years of dedication to the residents of Weld County, Dr. Mark Wallace informed the Board of Commissioners of his plans to retire from his position with the county on May 29, 2020.
“Dr. Wallace has had an impactful career with Weld County, and we appreciate the dedication and professionalism he has brought to the county and our residents,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman.
Wallace, who started his career with the county in 1995, spent his first five years as the county’s public health medical advisor before accepting the position of Director of the Department of Public Health and Environment in 2000.
“I am proud of the work I have done here,” said Wallace. “The employees at the Health Department have been amazing to work with, and I know the department will continue to do great things for the residents of this county.” 
Wallace, who told the commissioners he desires to spend more time with family and focusing on his health, was instrumental in leading the department to be one of the first in the state to become accredited by the Public Health Accreditation Board (PHAB) in 2015. To become accredited by PHAB, Wallace guided his team to demonstrate performance across 12 domains and 32 standards of public health practice including quality improvement, performance management, evidence-based practices, administration, and governance. Accreditation demonstrated his team’s commitment to excellence.
“It was a great accomplishment to receive that accreditation for the department,” said Wallace. “I’m proud to have been a part of developing a strong public health program here in Weld.”
“Mark’s devotion, drive for perfection, and compassion for others have been instrumental in helping the county Health Department attain incredible success. We wish Mark all the best,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer. “We truly appreciate his work for the county, and we respect his desire to now focus on his family, friends and new opportunities down the road.”
Wallace and the Board of Commissioners will spend the next few weeks developing a transition plan for the leadership role of the department, while the emergency response to the pandemic will now fully move under the Emergency Operations Center (EOC).
“The EOC will continue to work with the health department staff on the response to COVID-19 just as they have been since March,” said Freeman. “This is what the departments train for – emergencies like this – so their work will continue seamlessly for our first-responders, healthcare workers and county residents.“


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/board_honors_nurses_on_national_nurses_day


Board honors nurses on National Nurses DayPosted on 05/06/2020
PROCLAMATION - NATIONAL NURSES WEEK MAY 6-12, 2020

WHEREAS, there are more than three million nurses in the United States dedicating their skills, knowledge and compassion to care for the sick and injured; and
WHEREAS, nurses make up the highest percentage of the country’s healthcare workforce; and
WHEREAS, especially in a time of crisis, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, nurses provide invaluable services and immeasurable dedication to ensuring patients and family members alike receive the care and treatment needed in their fight to become healthy; and
WHEREAS, in keeping with the tradition of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing, for whom National Nurses Week was created in honor of, nurses continue to make remarkable contributions to the healthcare field; and
WHEREAS, Weld County wishes to recognize all nurses and wishes to expressly thank the nurses employed by Weld County Government who are instrumental in helping fight COVID-19 right here at home, in addition to their regular nursing duties with the county: Nicole Albrook, Amy Antuna, Beatrice Bachenberg, Nicole Bondy, Alex Carmitchel-Fifer, Victoria Currie, Melanie Cyphers, Anna Dass Meier, Dana Garvey, Cynthia Horn, Vicky Krizan, Katelyn Magnuson, Lorena Marquez, Connie Marrs, Marisela Mendez, Annette Odell, Megan Page, and Caitlin Young; and
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners wishes to publicly acknowledge and thank our nursing staff for their dedication and compassion. The work you do for the residents of Weld County deserves our thanks each and every day, and as Commissioners we are proud to bring special attention to you during National Nurses Week.  

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of County Commissioners does hereby proclaim May 6-12, 2020, as National Nurses Week in Weld County. We call upon the citizens of Weld County to observe this week by taking time to thank nurses everywhere and to offer words of encouragement as they continue to be a crucial component in the fight against COVID-19.





Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/safety_a_priority_as_county_offices_set_to_reopen


Safety a priority as county offices set to reopenPosted on 05/01/2020In continuing its mission of providing important services to residents, Weld County Government will begin gradually reopening its offices to the public beginning Monday, May 4. As the process of reopening occurs, the public can expect some changes implemented to protect both themselves and county employees.
“While our offices have been closed to the public, our departments have continued to assist our residents electronically or over the phone,” Weld County Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman said. "That will continue during our gradual reopening, but we’re also looking forward to assisting the public in person again. We want people to know that we’ve taken several steps across our departments to ensure we serve them in a manner consistent with COVID-19 best practice guidelines.”
Each Weld County department has established procedures for reopening that have been reviewed by the Board of Commissioners. These procedures emphasize continued physical distancing, limit the number of people in a building at any one time, and follow other safety guidelines established by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). The procedures for each department can be found at https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/county_building_hours_starting_5_4 Specific procedures for the Weld County Administration Building, Clerk and Recorder’s Office – Motor Vehicles and Department of Human Services (DHS) are outlined below:
Administration Building: 
Hours of operation: Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tape has been placed along the lobby floor to remind those visitors to remain six feet apart. During board meetings, chairs in the audience will remain six feet apart. Extra rooms have been designated to ensure if the board room reaches capacity, the public can still view the meeting remotely from those rooms. Visitors to the Administration Building are asked to wear a mask if possible.
Clerk and Recorder’s Office – Motor Vehicle Division (All locations):
 The lobby will be open to the public by appointment only. To schedule an appointment, call the appropriate office: Greeley (970) 304-6525, Del Camino: (720) 652-4201, Fort Lupton: (303) 857-4635. Hours of operation: 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. for in person appointments, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. for service over the phone. Visitors are asked to observe social distancing and wear a mask if possible. 
DHS:
 All services will continue to be provided remotely. The lobbies will be open on a limited basis. Individuals 60 and older or those with a documented circumstance considered to be high risk may request an appointment Monday through Friday from 8:30 to 9:45 a.m. Appointments for individuals not in a high-risk category may request an individual appointment between 9:45 a.m-4:30 p.m. Individuals without access to a computer may also call to schedule an appointment. Contact information for each division of DHS can be found on this site. 


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/county_gives_p_p_e_to_front-line_workers


County gives PPE to front-line workersPosted on 04/30/2020Weld County Government has purchased more than $477,000 in personal protective equipment (PPE) to give to paramedics, doctors, nurses, emergency medical technicians, law enforcement officers, state troopers, deputies and firefighters to help protect themselves against COVID-19.
“We are extremely appreciative of the efforts of our first responders and medical responders,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “These PPE donations allow medical staff and first responders in Weld County to protect themselves against COVID-19 while treating those who need it most in our communities.”
Donations from the county include 119 pairs of gloves, 80,218 face masks, 13,676 isolation and surgical gowns, 60 bottles of hand sanitizer, 24 boxes of disinfecting wipes, 440 pairs of goggles and 700 face shields.
Weld County Government submitted several requests to the state for testing supplies and PPE in early March, but the state was not able to fill these requests. Due to the urgent need for PPE and the state not being able to fulfill the county’s requests, vendors were contacted that could provide the county with PPE to meet requests from local first responders, medical facilities and hospitals.
“During emergencies we make sure to track all expenses by purchasing resources, such as PPE and supplies for the COVID-19 response, through the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Logistics section,” said Weld County Director of the Office of Emergency Management Roy Rudisill. “If there is funding available to help reimburse the county, we have the necessary documentation to provide to the state and/or federal agency supporting the emergency response grant program.”
As there is a continued need for PPE, the Board of County Commissioners will consider further purchase if necessary. Anyone else wanting to donate please call (970) 400-5172 or (970) 400-5173 between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday to arrange a time for your items to be picked up.
For more information about COVID-19, visit www.weldhealth.org.

Community organizations around Weld County have also stepped up to donate PPE. To date, six organizations have donated PPE for use by front-line workers.
Aims Community College donated 810 face masks, 123 face shields, 300 isolation gowns and 6,575 pairs of gloves.
University of Northern Colorado donated 1,100 face masks.
WeldWerks Brewing Company donated 330 bottles of hand sanitizer.
Weld RE-2 Eaton school district donated 79 boxes of gloves and 200 surgical masks.
Weld RE-5J Johnstown/Milliken school district donated 24 boxes of sanitizing wipes and 24 boxes of gloves.
Weld RE-4 Severance/Windsor school district donated a busload of 790 containers of disinfecting wipes, 31 bottles of hand sanitizer and 50 surgical/isolation gowns.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/telephone_town_hall_5_4


Telephone Town Hall 5/4Posted on 04/30/2020The Weld County Board of Commissioners will be holding a telephone town hall on Monday, May 4, 2020, from 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
“We want to speak directly to county residents to provide an overview of the state of county government during the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Commissioner Chairman Mike Freeman. “We will update residents on the county’s continuity of government plan, how government functions continued during the past two months and what county operations will look like as our buildings reopen. Residents will also be updated on the emergency operations center and the work being done to help combat COVID-19. And we will talk about the county’s budget given the dramatic drop in the price of oil.”
Some residents will receive a pre-recorded call the day before and the day of the event inviting them to join the telephone town hall, but anyone can call into the event by dialing 877-229-8493 with ID code 119533 when the event starts. The telephone town hall format will allow residents to not only listen to the board’s remarks but also ask questions.
“This will be the first time Weld County Government has conducted a telephone town hall,” Freeman said. “We anticipate it being a great way to update and engage with the public.”
Vekeo, the vendor providing the service, accesses phone numbers from Weld County registered voter lists and will randomly select 52,000 phone numbers to call for the event. All county residents, however, are invited to call in a participate.
The public can also view the event on online at www.weldgov.com (look under the quick links section on the home page).


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/best_practices_guidelines_for_reopening


Best Practices Guidelines for ReopeningPosted on 04/23/2020In preparation for the gradual reopening of businesses across the state, the Weld County Board of Commissioners and the Weld County Department of Public Health and Environment (WCDPHE) have published a set of Safer-At-Work Best Practices for employers and businesses.
“We understand the need to start to reopen our businesses and get our economy healthy again,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “We wanted to provide some guidance and best practices that will help employers and business owners do that in a gradual and responsible way.”
The guidelines include direction on maintaining physical distance between employees and/or customers, sanitization of surfaces and work areas, and tips on educating employees on ways to reduce the spread of the virus in the workplace.
“It is crucial that businesses reopen gradually and responsibly for the safety of their employees and their customers,” said Freeman. “No one should expect businesses to be operating at full capacity for a while, but it is important to let businesses at least start the reopening process.”
Until there is a vaccine for the COVID-19 virus, the public needs to continue with prevention practices including maintaining a distance of six feet from others, covering your coughs and sneezes, washing your hands often or using hand sanitizer, cleaning frequently touched surfaces with appropriate disinfectants and staying home if you are ill.
The guidelines, along with posters for the workplace reminding people of ways to stop the spread, are available at https://www.weldgov.com/departments/health_and_environment/2019_novel_coronavirus/reopening_guidelines
Additional guidelines for other business sectors will be forthcoming.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/board_suspends_r_v_restrictions


Board suspends RV restrictionsPosted on 04/20/2020As part of the county’s ongoing COVID-19 pandemic response, the Board of Commissioners voted unanimously to suspend a section of county code which limits the amount of time an individual can stay in an RV.
“We realize our first responders and health care workers may need an alternative to living in their homes as they are trying to minimize their exposure to family members,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer. “Allowing those who live in unincorporated Weld County to use their RVs for this purpose makes sense and is something we can easily do to help our families.”
Currently County Code states: Section 23-1-90 - CAMPING: A recreational activity involving the spending of up to seven (7) consecutive nights in a tent, primitive STRUCTURE, travel trailer or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE at a campsite. This activity is to provide temporary shelter and is not intended to be a residence.
The temporary suspension will allow the use of a RV within all zone districts of unincorporated Weld County for temporary COVID-19 quarantine quarters. 
The Board of Commissioners approved a similar temporary suspension regarding RVs following the 2013 floods, which allowed people to live in their RVs while making repairs to their homes. 


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/live_stream_addition_to_wednesday_b_o_c_c_schedule


Live stream addition to Wednesday BOCC schedulePosted on 04/06/2020As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, and lobby doors to county buildings remain closed (now through May 1), the Board of County Commissioners will start a live stream update for the public following their Wednesday board meeting. Starting Wednesday, April 8, from 9:30 – 10:00 a.m. (or right after the 9:00 a.m. meeting), the Board of Commissioners will provide updates on the work county government is doing through the pandemic. These updates will continue through April 29.
“The buildings may be closed to the public, but county government continues to work for our residents,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “We feel it is important to share the results of that work, so we decided to utilize existing technology to live stream these updates for county residents.” 
During the past few weeks, the Board has been involved in a variety of projects and updates including looking at ways to provide financial relief to county residents and businesses, continuing to explore options for gathering public input on the comprehensive plan, and supporting the team at the health department as they continue to investigate COVID-19 cases.
Each commissioner will update the public on various county government projects as well as answer some questions submitted by the public to a dedicated email address for this event: askthecommissioners@weldgov.com.
“We are all figuring out new ways to conduct business based on our current situation,” said Freeman. “We think this live stream update will help residents feel better connected with what county government continues to work on during this time.”


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/health__first_responders_tested_in_no_co


Health, first responders tested in NoCoPosted on 04/04/2020On Tuesday, March 31, and Friday, April 3, staff from Weld County’s and Larimer County’s Departments of Public Health and Environment conducted their first COVID-19 testing drive-through at the Ranch in Loveland. The drive-through testing was only open to health care workers and first responders in those counties. The test kits were provided by the Federal Health and Human Services Department (HHS).

“Health care workers and first responders have been working tirelessly to treat people who’ve been infected by this virus,” said Dr. Mark Wallace, MD, MPH, Executive Director of the Weld County Department of Public Health and Environment. “Making the first supply of test kits in northern Colorado available to them was a critical step in keeping them healthy and protecting against the spread of COVID-19.”

Larimer County was selected by the Colorado Department of Health and Human Services (CDPHE) to conduct the drive-through testing event for health care workers and first responders who are symptomatic and responded to a survey sent to health care providers, long-term care facilities, ambulatory providers and law enforcement throughout both counties.

To make the event as successful as possible and achieve the maximum benefit of the tests available, Weld County and Larimer County worked together. Larimer County Public Health secured The Ranch as a testing site, the Larimer County Sheriff’s provided traffic control, and the Weld County Health Department provided 25 clinical support staff who conducted the actual testing. Each test took approximately 10 minutes to complete and were gathered by CDPHE and taken to a lab for analysis. Positive results will be shared with the individuals as well as their respective home county in the next several days.

HHS supplied the test kits for the event and a total of 189 people were tested. The remaining kits will be split among each county and will be used to test priority populations within both Weld and Larimer.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/county_recognizes_child_abuse_prevention_month


Weld County recognizes Child Abuse Prevention Month with a Virtual Children's Art GalleryPosted on 04/01/2020This year, Weld County is once again recognizing Child Abuse Prevention Month. Since all public events previously planned throughout the month to bring awareness to child abuse and to celebrate countywide prevention efforts were cancelled due to the COVID-19 outbreak and stay-at-home order, a new and exciting digital exhibit is being announced.
The Board of Commissioners proclaimed April as Child Abuse Prevention Month at today’s board meeting, observing the fact that every child deserves to grow up in a safe, loving and stable family, free from physical, sexual, emotional and verbal abuse, and that strengthening, educating and supporting families is the most effective way to prevent child abuse and neglect.
“The COVID-19 public health crisis reminds us all just how connected we are – and how much we depend on one another,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “It really is everyone’s job to protect children and connect with families within their communities to ensure they’re strong and thriving. Right now, more than ever.”
That’s why Weld County is engaging in a month-long awareness campaign, with the theme of “Everyone can make great childhoods happen – especially you, especially now!” And to kick off the campaign, children of all ages are invited to participate in a virtual children’s art gallery, which will be featured on the Weld County Facebook page. 
Children are encouraged to create art projects at home that symbolize what great childhoods mean to them. Parents/guardians can then submit a photograph of the completed artwork, sharing their child’s first name, last initial and age. All types of art are welcome, so please submit photos of your child’s Lego builds, craft projects, drawings, photography, chalk art or anything else. Be creative and have fun!
Submissions are due by Friday, April 10 for a chance to be featured on the county Facebook page throughout the weeks of April 20 and 27. For full instructions and more information, visit www.weldchildcare.com.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/board_approves_financial_relief_to_businesses


Board approves financial relief to businessesPosted on 03/25/2020UPDATE 3/31/20: The Governor is now limiting this in his Executive Order to April 30. This decision effectively eliminates the option the Board put forward to providing property tax relief through October 31. While the Board is disappointed by this action, they continue to look for other options available to provide temporary financial relief to businesses and individuals.
During today’s meeting, the Board of Commissioners passed a resolution to reduce the interest charged on delinquent property taxes. This reduction is in effect for both businesses and residents until October 31, 2020.
“We know our business community and our families are facing economic pressures due to COVID-19,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “We want to help as much as we can when they’re faced with figuring out which bills to pay first or which employees to keep on staff.”
In a letter sent to the Board by Weld County Treasurer John Lefebvre, Lefebvre explained that he will partially waive the 12% per year interest for delinquent payments, and instead only charge approximately 1% per year on delinquent property tax payments, if those payments and interest due are paid in full through October 31, 2020. This action is Pursuant to Section II.I. of Governor Polis' Executive Order D 2020 010, dated March 20, 2020.
“This action by the board will provide some relief for those businesses or individuals struggling financially from either COVID19 or the other economic challenges we are facing” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer. “For business it could very well be the difference between surviving or not. And for residents faced with prioritizing their financial expenditures, figuring out who to pay when, with the limited cash they have on hand, we hope this makes that decision a bit easier.”
Essentially, lowering the interest that accrues on delinquent taxes means that those companies and individuals who need to use their cash on hand for expenses, can do so knowing they aren’t racking up sizeable interest charges if they pay their property taxes late. 
The first payment for property taxes was due at the end of February, so the reduction would impact those who would pay in full by April 30 or those pay their second half of property tax on June 15. Typically, the county collects 99.9% of property taxes by October, but was anticipating that number to go down by 5-10% this year because of job and income loss due to COVID-19.
“Our goal is to retain businesses and assist individuals financially as much as we can,” said Commissioner Steve Moreno.
Because this decision impacts all taxing entities within the county, the commissioners held conference calls with municipalities, special districts and schools to get their feedback on the action as it will impact their budgets as well.
“Overall, all the taxing entities we spoke to were supportive of the idea,” said Commissioner Scott James. “We all understand the need to help mitigate the economic damage this pandemic is causing.”
Communication with the taxing entities will continue. “We promised to hold further conference calls and give updates, especially after the April 30th deadline,” said Commissioner Kevin Ross. “We understand the importance of all entities knowing the status of collection so they can plan accordingly.”


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/county_declares_disaster_emergency


County declares disaster emergencyPosted on 03/18/2020A declaration of disaster emergency was signed by the Weld County Board of Commissioners this morning to ensure any future Federal assistance made available in response to COVID-19 is accessible to not only our business community but also county residents.
“Typically, when a county declares a disaster emergency, it’s because local resources are no longer able to manage the emergency effectively,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “While our local government resources are not at that point, the health pandemic has created an extremely difficult economic situation for the public. This declaration is being made for our residents and business owners.”
While information regarding future financial Federal assistance for individuals and businesses is still coming in, business owners with questions and concerns can contact Upstate Colorado at https://upstatecolorado.org/ or the Small Business Development Center https://eastcoloradosbdc.com/.
The declaration in part reads: 
WHEREAS, as a result of the restrictions placed on businesses and because of temporary business and office closings, families in Weld County will be suffering economic hardships in the next few weeks and months, and
WHEREAS, pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 24-33.5-701, et. seq. (the “Colorado Disaster Emergency Act"), and Title VI of PL 93-288, as amended, The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Weld County’s citizens and businesses suffering economic injury as a result of the COVID-19 Pandemic Health Emergency may qualify for Federal disaster assistance, or be eligible to apply for SBA Economic Injury Disaster Loans because of a Small
Business Administration (SBA) disaster declaration, as long as the Board declares there exists in Weld County a disaster emergency.
Read the full declaration here.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/an_update_on_many_clerk_and_recorder_services


An update on many Clerk and Recorder servicesPosted on 03/17/2020To continue to provide excellent customer service:
Motor Vehicle:

Most services are available online including vehicle registration/tag renewals (even when expired or in the grace month), duplicate registration or title requests, address changes, disability parking, and more.
If you are in doubt or have any issues renewing online, call our office. There may be ways staff can help or ways to complete a transaction over email.
Private party sales (person to person vehicle sales). Please call first to verify all the necessary paperwork. 
Vehicle Title name/ownership changes. Please call first to verify all the necessary paperwork.
Special Mobile Machinery (SMM) registration – currently working on a solution.
Email or Call first for all other services: cr-mv@weldgov.com

Phone numbers: Greeley - 970-304-6520, Del Camino – 720-652-4201 Fort Lupton – 303-857-4635.
Recording:

Weld County office will only issue marriage licenses as our only in-person service, by appointment only to control the gathering of the public.  This is limited to the Bride and Groom only.
All other recording services, such as recording a document, searching records, etc. can be done online, if you have any questions please call or email our office for assistance: 970-304-6530, crstaff@weldgov.com 
There is a DropBox located at 1500 2nd Street for documents that need to be processed.

Elections:

Please visit www.govotecolorado.gov to register to vote or update your registration.  Email or call our office for assistance with voter registration and election-related needs: 970-304-6525, elections@weldgov.com 



Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/county_buildings_closed_to_public_until_4_8_20


County buildings closed to public until 4/8/20Posted on 03/16/2020Starting  (March 17) county offices will be closed to the public, but please know business is continuing within each of the county buildings. 
“We are still providing services to the public,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman, “but we will be providing them differently to help slow the spread of COVID-19.”
Many county services are already available online, and staff will still be available to answer calls and emails regarding questions the public may have concerning services county government provides.
“We have the technology to handle most of the public’s needs without requiring them to actually come to a county building,” said Freeman. “Now, we really get to put that technology to use.”
Board meetings, which are live streamed, will continue at their regular time 9:00 a.m. Mondays and Wednesdays. Public comment for these meetings can be emailed to the Clerk to the Board’s Office for inclusion in the public record (crempel@weldgov.com).
Land Use Hearings will be postponed for 30 days. Applicants with pending hearings should contact the Planning Department at 970-400-6100 for more information.
A full list of services and contact information is available on the county’s web page at www.weldgov.com (this page will be live by midnight).
The county building closure is effective March 17 through April 8.

Please visit the following sources for up-to-date information from the county:
 
County Government Web: www.weldgov.com
 
County Government Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/WeldCountyGovernment
 
County Government Twitter: https://twitter.com/weldgov
 
County Health: https://www.weldgov.com/departments/health_and_environment



Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/pandemic_emergency_not_same_as_disaster_emergency


Pandemic emergency not same as disaster emergencyPosted on 03/16/2020As the situation regarding COVID-19 continues to evolve, the Board of Commissioners wanted to take minute to explain the difference between a Declaration of a Pandemic Health Emergency and a Declaration of Disaster Emergency as it relates to Weld County. 
A Declaration of Pandemic Health Emergency may be declared by Dr. Mark Wallace, the Weld County Health Officer, per County Code:
Sec. 14-10-10. - Declaration by County Health Officer.
In addition to the authorities granted the County Health Officer by and through the state statutes, the Health Officer shall have authority to declare a pandemic health emergency if, in his or her professional judgment, illness or health conditions within the County exist such that an emergency has been created thereby. The Health Officer shall declare that the pandemic health emergency has ended when, in his or her professional judgment, illness or health conditions within the County no longer are an emergency.
The Declaration of Pandemic Health Emergency allows Dr. Wallace to utilize other County personnel to perform Health Department tasks related to the emergency as directed by him.  
A Declaration of Disaster Emergency is issued by the Board of County Commissioners and is done primarily when the County has depleted its resources when responding to a disaster.  The Declaration of Disaster Emergency is needed to access Federal funds and resources to not only deal with the emergency as it happens but also through the duration of the recovery process. It also allows for reimbursement to the county for qualified resources and expenses put toward responding to the emergency.
The Board of County Commissioners has not declared a disaster emergency. The Board has been briefed by their Office of Emergency Management that the County is not beyond its resource capacity, as government, to deal with this situation. 
Unlike a flood or a tornado, where the county could, for example, run out of barricades or require additional plows or motor graders to handle an event, the COVID-19 response from the county government level consists of workforce being able to continue to perform their work duties and provide services to the public.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/commissioner_james_recommended_to_board


Commissioner James recommended to boardPosted on 03/12/2020Residents in Firestone may soon have another individual working on their behalf to improve areas of the community as the Weld County Board of Commissioners unanimously recommended Commissioner Scott James be the newest member of the Firestone Urban Renewal Authority (FURA) Board. 
Urban Renewal Authorities were originally developed as a way to help municipalities improve blighted areas of a community, or areas that in their current state, substantially impair or limit the sound growth of a municipality, hinder or obstruct the provision of housing accommodations or are a threat to public health, safety and welfare. 
The FURA consists of several different tax entities from throughout Weld County. As a member of the FURA board, James will work with those entities and alongside his fellow board members to determine how revenue from those entities can be used to improve the community. 
“With the projected growth of Weld County in the future, it’s critical that our communities have the infrastructure necessary to accompany that growth,” James said. “I look forward to working with members of the FURA board to see how we can best utilize resources to build and strengthen Firestone so that it meets the current and future needs of residents.”
Firestone is one of many municipalities James represents as commissioner of District 2. The commissioners’ recommendation will be sent to FURA’s Executive Director. James will join the board once appointed as a new member. 
To learn more about the FURA, visit https://www.firestoneco.gov/111/Firestone-Urban-Renewal-Authority.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/preparation_continues_regarding_c_o_v_i_d-19


Preparation continues regarding COVID-19Posted on 03/12/2020This week our news is dominated by constant COVID-19 updates. Events are being postponed or cancelled, universities are deciding to hold classes online, and local stores can’t keep some basic essentials on the shelves. It can be quite scary, but it doesn’t need to be.

HEALTH DEPARTMENT UPDATES
•	You can find updated heath information on our web site www.weldgov.com. Our Department of Public Health and Environment has been monitoring COVID-19 for months and has done a great job compiling information and updating it daily. 

•	Our Director of Health, Dr. Mark Wallace, has even put together a quick video explaining the symptoms of COVID-19 and steps you can take to best prevent contracting the virus. There are also helpful fact sheets for the public including health care providers, child-care centers and schools and law enforcement. These sheets were emailed to all of Weld County’s municipalities, chambers, school districts, health organizations and law enforcement agencies last week. 

•	Any new updates regarding COVID-19 will also be shared on the county’s social media pages (Facebook and Twitter)

BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
•	The board is receiving regular updates from the health department as well as emergency management and public communications. This past week, the board directed all departments to review the Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP), which is a plan each department has developed detailing how they will continue working in either alternate locations or with reduced staff, should that happen. 

•	The county’s Continuity of Government (COG) group, has been activated as well. This group helps departments implement their COOPs as well as address potential questions or issues that any given situation could present. 

•	In short, department heads and elected officials are in frequent communication not only about the public’s health concerns but also employee and workforce concerns; making sure county government continues to protect the health of residents and employees while still providing services to the public.

OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
•	Our Director of Emergency Management, Roy Rudisill, is also in frequent communication with other emergency managers, state officials and local departments. As with any potential emergency situation, this department is prepared to assist our municipalities should they request.

PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS
•	The team continues to support the above departments by monitoring media and social media, preparing news releases and engaging in information sharing. 

HERE ARE LINKS TO NEWS SOURCES WE ARE USING AND/OR SHARE INFORMATION ON:
•	Weld County webpage: www.weldgov.com

•	Weld County health department COVID-19 page: www.weldgov.com/departments/health_and_environment/2019_novel_coronavirus

•	Center for Disease Control (CDC):  www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/assess-manage-risk.html

•	Weld County Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/WeldCountyGovernment

•	Weld County Twitter: https://twitter.com/weldgov

WHAT CAN YOU DO?

First, don’t let fear override common sense. All the disinfectant wipes may be out of stock at the stores, but there are still bottles of cleaner sprays. The hand sanitizer may not be available, but there is still plenty of soap. The point is: don’t panic, be practical.

1)	Wash your hands frequently

2)	Don’t touch your face

3)	Practice social distancing – meaning don’t stand so close to other people

4)	Stay home if you feel sick

Second, stay informed but make sure your information is from credible sources. And most of all, don’t let news about COVID-19 consume you. The 24-hour news cycle can become overwhelming. The fact is COVID-19 is here in Colorado, and just like the flu or any other virus, we all need to take precautions but not live in fear. 



Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/open_house_3_19_for_i-25_parallel_road_project


Open house 3/19 for I-25 Parallel Road ProjectPosted on 03/11/2020Weld and Larimer counties and the towns of Mead, Berthoud, and Johnstown, along with the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), are collectively facilitating the final open house meeting to discuss the preliminary design effort for a new arterial roadway east of I-25. The project is an extension of the Weld County Road (WCR) 9.5 north/south alignment spanning approximately 14 miles from WCR 32 north to Ronald Reagan Boulevard/Larimer County Road (LCR) 3.

Since the last open house in September of 2019, the team has finalized a roadway alignment  identifying the necessary right-of-way along the corridor as well as developed a preliminary access control plan for the arterial roadway.  
Construction is expected through some portions of the new parallel arterial over the next two to five years through developments identified within municipalities as growth occurs. 

There will not be a formal presentation at this meeting but rather an open-house format for project review including opportunities to ask questions throughout the meeting.

Meeting details: 
Thursday, March 19, 2020
5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Southwest Weld County Building (Large Meeting Room)
4209 CR 24 1/2,
Longmont, CO 80504



Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/context_on_benzene_reading_at_bella_romero


Context on benzene reading at Bella RomeroPosted on 03/10/2020Following the November 25, 2019, news release from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) announcing an elevated reading of benzene at the Bella Romero school in Greeley, the Weld County Board of Commissioners reached out to  independent environment and health experts from a global engineering firm for confirmation and further clarification.

“The only numbers available to the public related to air-quality readings are those from the state. Weld County wanted a highly credible third-party firm to review the state’s data and characterization and provide us with unbiased, reliable information,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman.

The county engaged experts from the Denver office of Ramboll, a global, multi-disciplinary engineering, design and consultancy company with whom the commissioners had previous discussions following the passage of Senate Bill 19-181. Ramboll experts reviewed the CDPHE release and provided further context on measuring and understanding levels – including the one-time elevated reading reported by CDPHE.

“While CDPHE did report an elevated reading of 10.24 parts per billion (ppb) one time  in November, the experts at Ramboll put the reading into context by equating that level to what one would be exposed to while standing on a street corner in an urban environment, like Denver,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer. 

“We are concerned,” said Commissioner Kirkmeyer. “The state health department report created unnecessary fear among the families and children who live near the school and then has not been available to address these fears or answer questions.”

To date, the state has not provided any follow-up information to the school or the county health department, with whom they committed to remain in contact for further air quality monitoring.

“The timing of the CDPHE release made it difficult, if not impossible, for the county to react or respond in a meaningful way,” said Commissioner Steve Moreno. “We were notified only 16 minutes before the media.” The release also came just days after the state declined Weld County’s offer to partner on air-quality monitoring of pre-production oil and gas activities in Weld County, and three weeks prior to the state Air Quality Control Commission’s public hearing in Loveland on new regulations.

“When you connect the dots on the timeline, it does seem politically motivated,” Commissioner Scott James said. “The state recorded the ‘elevated’ reading at the beginning of November, told the families three weeks later, held air quality meetings weeks after that, and then disappeared.”

Upon receiving and vetting Ramboll’s report, the board met with the Greeley/Evans District 6 Superintendent and staff to provide them with the information the county had learned.

“Regardless of your personal opinion about oil and gas production, information relating to matters concerning the public’s health should not be politicized to further an agenda,” said Commissioner Kevin Ross.

The board continues to work with Ramboll on air-quality monitoring solutions and information vetting.


READ THE RAMBOLL FACT SHEET HERE.


DATES OF NOTE

October 2019: Weld County begins talks with Ramboll (an engineering, design and consultancy company) to determine if they could provide assistance with gathering, studying, reviewing and consulting on issues of air quality in preparation of the state’s continued implementation of SB 19-181. Ramboll’s knowledgeable staff of scientists, toxicologists and other specialists would be extremely helpful for Weld County staff in understanding the intricacies of air quality monitoring as well as for commissioners when testifying to legislators. 

10/30/19: Weld County Commissioners send a letter to Governor Jared Polis, Executive Director of CDPHE, Jill Ryan and Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Natural Resources Dan Gibbs offering to partner with the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (COGCC) and the CDPHE to implement additional monitoring and modeling of pre-production oil and gas activities in Weld County.

11/8/19: The county receives a letter from COGCC Director Jeff Robbins and Director of Environmental Programs for CDPHE John Putnam declining Weld County’s offer, stating: “…given the importance of ensuring consistency in the data-gathering methodologies at all of the oil and gas locations under consideration…as well as the public’s desire for an independent and timely, open and transparent process, we must respectfully decline your offer to combine efforts at this stage.”

11/25/19, 11:45 a.m.: CDPHE alerts the Weld County Health Director Dr. Mark Wallace that a news release will be sent out that day regarding information about benzene levels at Bella Romero. Dr. Wallace informs (via phone) the Communications Director, Jennifer Finch, of the impending release.

11/25/19, 12:01 p.m.: Dr. Wallace receives the news release from Jessica Bralish at CDPHE.

11/25/19, 12:17 p.m.: Dr. Wallace forwards the release to Finch and the Board of Commissioners. The release states the elevated measurement was detected on November 5, 2019, but not confirmed until the week of November 18.

12/16/20: Colorado Air Quality Control Commission holds scheduled public hearing on air quality in Loveland.

2/24/20: Dr. Wallace and staff report no knowledge or information regarding any follow-up by CDPHE regarding the elevated level report.

For more information and supporting documents, click here. 


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/accounting_department_receives_38th_g_f_o_a_award


Accounting Department receives 38th GFOA AwardPosted on 03/04/2020Weld County’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) has been nationally recognized once again by the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA). The Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting for the 2019 fiscal year was recently awarded to the Accounting Department.
“Congratulations! What an amazing accomplishment to win this award for the 38th consecutive year,” said Mike Freeman, Chairman of the Weld County Board of Commissioners. “Weld County’s accounting team deserves this recognition, and it shows our commitment to being good stewards of taxpayer money.”
Established in 1945, GFOA’s Certificate of Achievement program encourages state and local governments to exceed the baseline financial reporting standards and prepare comprehensive reports that foster full disclosure. This achievement is the highest form of recognition in governmental accounting and reporting.
Weld County’s Accounting Department works diligently to ensure the CAFR, which is comprised of financial transaction results, is completed on time and the guidelines of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) are met. The standards for the design and type of financial information required in the report can change from year to year; however, in its 38th consecutive year of winning this award, Weld County’s Accounting Department continues to ensure these changing standards are being met.
Experts in governmental financial reporting at the GFOA judge state, local and county financial reports submitted annually. The CAFR, which best meets the standards mentioned above, is awarded the certificate.
“Thank you for this recognition,” said Barb Connolly, Weld County Controller. “I’m extremely proud of my team for meeting GFOA standards yet again. We greatly appreciate the honor of receiving this award.”
For more information about the Weld County Accounting Department, visit www.weldgov.com.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/freeman_to_serve_on_two_c_t_s_i_boards


Freeman to serve on two CTSI boardsPosted on 03/03/2020Weld County Government will continue to have a voice in ensuring county property and casualty insurance costs remain low with the election of Weld County Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman to the County Technical Services, Inc. (CTSI) Board of Directors. Freeman will also serve on the Board of Directors for the Colorado Counties Casualty and Property Insurance Pool.
CTSI is a nonprofit agency founded by Colorado county commissioners in 1984. CTSI pools together financial resources provided by its member counties for the administration of health insurance, workers’ compensation and casualty and property insurance. Fifty-three Colorado counties participate in CTSI; however, Weld County only participates in the casualty and property insurance pool.
“Making sure we’re not overpaying for insurance is an important way we continue to make the best use of taxpayer money,” Freeman said. “I look forward to working with CTSI and continuing to keep Weld County’s casualty and property insurance affordable.”
As a member of the Casualty and Property Pool Board of Directors, Freeman will work alongside other county officials from throughout the state to make determinations related to county claim settlements and yearly premiums as well as set deductibles for different types of claims. He will also help oversee an insurance plan established by CTSI, which has saved Weld County money over traditional plans from commercial insurance providers.
“The policy is specifically written for counties in CTSI,” said Don Warden, Weld County Director of Finance and Administration. “The plan gives us customized coverage that meets Colorado county governments’ specific needs while keeping costs low. Our involvement in the casualty and property insurance pool has been extremely successful.”
On the CTSI Board of Directors, Freeman will work with five other Colorado commissioners to set CTSI employee policies and salaries.
To learn more about CTSI, visit https://www.ctsi.org/.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/weld_o_e_m_offers_free_weather_spotter_class


Weld OEM offers free weather spotter classPosted on 03/02/2020The weather can change suddenly in Weld County. When it does, having as much information as possible about what to expect can be crucial to protecting family and property.
To equip the public with the knowledge needed to better recognize severe weather events, the Weld County Office of Emergency Management (OEM) is hosting a free Weather Spotter Training class at 6:30 p.m. on Thursday, March 26, in the Weld County Administration Building, located at 1150 O St. in Greeley. The class is free, but a reservation is required.
To reserve a seat in the training, contact the Weld County Office of Emergency Management at (970) 304-6540, or email Gracie Marquez at gmarquez@weldgov.com. If translation services are needed, please specify when registering.
Participants will learn the signs of impending severe weather and how to report it. They will also learn how to stay safe during a tornado, flood or lightning storm.
“This training not only benefits you in preparing yourself for severe weather incidents, it also helps others in the county,” said Roy Rudisill, Director of OEM. “By taking this class and learning what to look for, you can earn a weather spotter certification through the National Weather Service and help them deliver timely warnings to the public when severe weather occurs.”
For more information on emergency preparedness, visit www.weldoem.com.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/collaboration_brings_relief_to_la_salle_commuters


Collaboration brings relief to LaSalle commutersPosted on 02/28/2020Residents in LaSalle can celebrate a shorter and safer commute through town thanks to the completion of a project that brought the municipality, the county and the railroad together to implement a much-needed solution. On Thursday, LaSalle’s Police Chief Carl Harvey, and Mayor Andrew Martinez, joined Senior Director of Public Affairs for Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) Nathan Anderson, and Weld County Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer for the official opening of a new extension of WCR 39. This new one-third mile connector road will provide better access across Highway 85 for those living on WCR 50.5 and will eliminate traffic being blocked on LaSalle’s 1st St. by trains accessing UPPR’s switchyard.   

“This project has been years in the making,” said Kirkmeyer. “I’m so happy to see this come to fruition. It was really a concentrated effort by the three entities to join together and find a solution that worked for all parties involved. The end result gives residents relief from congestion, first responders more predictable travel paths to emergencies and the railroad more efficient use of their tracks and switchyard. It is a win-win-win for everyone!”

In August 2018, the county approved a Memorandum of Understanding and a Department of Local Affairs (DOLA) agreement to help alleviate safety concerns on LaSalle’s main street. LaSalle received a $700,000 DOLA grant, and Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) contributed $830,000 for the project. The county also obtained a DOLA grant to assist with the cost of the design.

“With Union Pacific contribution of matching funds for this project, we were actually able to create a safer transportation corridor for everyone,” said Kirkmeyer. “It shows their desire to be good neighbors in the community, and we appreciate their assistance in this project.”

The county’s contribution to the improvement project was the design and construction of a connector road which extends county road 39 between county roads 50.5 and 52 giving travelers east of the railroad tracks a secondary option to get through town. 

“The county also had to build and install a horizontal elliptical reinforce concrete pipe (RCP) culvert on this road in order to address drainage issues in the area,” Kirkmeyer said. “Our team has really done an amazing job on this project.” 

The county’s portion of the project totaled $1,922,387; the total cost of the project was $3,452,387.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/weld_county_finalizes_emergency_operations_plan


Weld County finalizes Emergency Operations PlanPosted on 02/21/2020Renewing its commitment to keep Weld County responsive and functional during emergency situations, the Board of Commissioners recently approved an updated Emergency Operations Plan (EOP).
“Over the past 18 months, the board has worked with Office of Emergency Management staff to make changes to the EOP,” Weld County Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman said. “These changes ensure our county will be prepared to respond quickly and start recovery immediately.”
Last updated in 2015, the EOP guides how the county will respond to emergencies and natural or man-made disasters. The plan encompasses the roles, responsibilities and actions of each department within the county and outside organizations that assist in disaster response.
As part of a collaborative effort between the commissioners and Office of Emergency Management (OEM), recent updates include better defining the responsibilities the Department of Finance and Administration, Department of Public Works and Department of Buildings and Grounds play in the plan. Per state statute, Weld County’s EOP needs to be up-to-date to receive funding from the state in the event of a disaster.
“We’ve had this plan in place for years,” Weld County OEM Director Roy Rudisill said. “But we needed to make updates to stay on top of state guidelines so we can continue providing the best emergency operations to residents.”
For more information about Weld County’s emergency operations, visit www.weldoem.com.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/weld__larimer_collaborate_on_workforce_development


Weld, Larimer collaborate on workforce developmentPosted on 02/20/2020The second annual joint Weld and Larimer County Workforce Development Board meeting was held last week in Loveland. Over 40 members from both boards joined together to review current local projects, identify regional workforce priorities and plan potential future areas of collaboration.
“Northern Colorado is forecasted to be a metro area of one million people by 2036, so it’s more important than ever for our counties to work together,” said Tami Grant, Deputy Director of Weld County Human Services. “The NoCo region is a thriving area we want to continue to promote and market to both citizens and businesses looking to relocate.”
The regional partnership was formalized into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) last year between both counties’ Board of Commissioners. The MOU in part states, “The Boards recognize that certain business, labor, transportation, educational, cultural and other assets exist within our two counties; so that when marketed jointly, a stronger case can be made to prospective employers and potential employees within certain targeted industry and occupational sectors.”
At this year’s meeting, members engaged in table discussions and participated in presentations to provide digital, real-time feedback, which was captured and distributed to attendees. Top priorities for 2020 were decided, which include continued and enhanced regional partnering through joint meetings and new avenues of collaboration. Other pressing issues were also added to the discussion, such as the lack of child care, transportation concerns and workforce center accessibility.
“Our counties have similar interests and issues,” added Grant. “We both want to attract employers and employees, but the reality is that people don’t live and work in just one town – they constantly cross lines to shop, dine, recreate and everything in between, so it’s imperative that we really look at our region as a whole.”
Both the Weld and Larimer County Workforce Development Boards have been designated as High Performing by the Colorado Workforce Development Council. This means the boards meet specific key performance indicators, such as having diverse and knowledgeable community members who participate in activities supporting the local workforce system and actively engage in board meetings.
Learn more about the Weld County Workforce Development Board at https://www.weldgov.com/departments/human_services/employment_services/workforce_development_board.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/ross_sworn_in_as_commissioner


Ross sworn in as commissionerPosted on 02/19/2020Following appointment by the Weld County Council on February 17, Kevin Ross was officially sworn in this morning as Weld County’s newest commissioner. Chief Judge for the 19th Judicial District, James Hartmann, presided over the swearing-in ceremony in which Ross’ family, fellow county commissioners. and county staff attended. 
“I’m honored to have been selected by the county council to serve the residents as a commissioner,” said Ross. “Serving the county through this position is important to me, and I look forward to not only participating in the local government process but also bringing my skills to the table as we all work on continuing to ensure Weld County remains the thriving community we all love.”
Ross is a 35+ year resident of Weld County who spent summers helping his grandparents operate and manage their family’s dry land wheat farm while growing up. He received a finance degree from the University of Wyoming and has successfully operated an insurance agency for the past sixteen years. No stranger to public service, Ross began serving on the Eaton Town Board in 2012 before being elected Mayor in 2016. He has also served on multiple boards including the Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization, the Highway 85 Coalition and the I-25 Mayors Bullseye Coalition.
“Kevin is ready to hit the ground running,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “We’re excited to be back to a full board and continuing to work together for the residents of the county.”
Following the ceremony, the board unanimously agreed to have Ross shadow each of the commissioners during their weekly coordinator briefings so he can begin to learn the intricacies of each county department.
“Traditionally when commissioners are elected to their position in November, they attend orientation programs in December to begin the process of learning the roles and responsibilities of their new job,” said Commissioner Pro-Tem Steve Moreno. “Because Kevin is starting now, he’s missed that opportunity. So, we will work together to make sure his on-boarding process is as complete as possible by having him join each of us in our commissioner coordinator briefings.”
“I’m excited to be part of this board and to start learning about each department more in depth,” Ross said. Following a few months of attending coordinator briefings, the board will name Ross to a department coordinator role.  
Ross replaces Sean Conway, who resigned his position last month, and will serve the remaining 10 months of Conway’s term in office. As Conway was term limited in 2020, Ross had already begun campaigning for the seat prior Conway’s resignation and will continue to pursue the At-Large position in the upcoming election.
Ross will transition out of his position as Mayor (his term is up in April). He will continue to own and oversee the operation of his insurance agency.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/eight_boards_and_commissions_have_openings


Eight boards and commissions have openingsPosted on 02/07/2020It’s a new year, and there are many new opportunities for residents to help county government services by volunteering on a board or commission. There are openings on the Building Trades Advisory Committee, Juvenile Community Review Board, Planning Commission, Weld County Building Code Board of Appeals, Weld Faith Partnership Council, Workforce Development Board, Island Grove Park Advisory Board and Child Protection Citizen Review Panel.
While each advisory board and commission differs in its individual focus and objective, each is designed to ensure services provided by Weld County Government continue to meet residents’ needs and expectations. By volunteering, board and commission members will have an opportunity to learn more about these services and provide feedback on how they can be improved to have the greatest benefit.
“Having county services that are continually responsive to our residents’ needs is important,” Weld County Chair Mike Freeman said. “Serving on a board or commission is a unique way to provide us with feedback which can be used to strengthen the services our residents depend on every day."


The benefit to serving on a board or commission doesn’t end with giving feedback. There will be chances to meet new people and network! Boards and commissions consist of individuals from throughout Weld County who each bring their own experience and perspective on how to improve county government. The knowledge gained by volunteering can also be used to advocate for services to others throughout the county.
Information about each board and commission opening can be found by visiting, https://tinyurl.com/WCBoardsCommissions-openings.  Applications will be accepted through February 20. For questions or more information, please contact Karla Ford at (970) 336-7204 or by emailing kford@weldgov.com.
 


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/everett_hogelin_memorial_award_to_kirkmeyer


Everett Hogelin Memorial Award to KirkmeyerPosted on 02/04/2020During the Fort Lupton Fire Protection District annual awards banquet last Saturday, Weld County Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer was presented with the organization’s prestigious Everett Hogelin Memorial Award. The award, named after the community leader and former member of the Fort Lupton Fire Department, is “presented annually…to the individual most exemplifying the characteristics of humility, dedicated citizenship and sincere concern for his fellow man that were lived by Everett Hogelin.”

Kirkmeyer’s service as chair of the e911 Authority Board for three years, chair of the North I-25 Coalition and the Highway 85 Coalition, president of the Fort Lupton Urban Renewal Authority Board, as well as her support of the families in the oil and gas industry, were all highlighted by Hogelin’s adult children who presented her with the honor. Recognition was also made of Kirkmeyer’s work with the Boys and Girls Club of Weld County and Fort Lupton, her volunteer service with the South Platte Historical Society and her service as vice-chair for the Family Resource Center of South Weld County.

“It is always wonderful to be recognized for your work,” said Kirkmeyer, “but when that recognition comes directly from your own home-town community, it’s extra special. I am truly honored and humbled to receive this award.”


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/workforce_development_board_receives_designation


Workforce Development Board receives designationPosted on 01/29/2020Employment Services of Weld County’s Workforce Development Board has been designated as a High Performing Board for the second year in a row. Lee Wheler-Berliner, Director of the Colorado Workforce Development Council, announced the status at the board’s first regular meeting of the year.
A High Performing Board designation is granted when a board meets certain key performance indicators, including having diverse and knowledgeable community members who actively participate in board meetings and activities supporting the local workforce system, and who accomplish goals and strategic priorities through data-driven, business-led meetings. The Weld County Workforce Development Board is the first and only board in the state to receive this designation more than once.
“This designation is a direct result of our board members’ contributions of time and effort while volunteering on the Weld County Workforce Development Board,” said Deputy Director of Human Services Tami Grant. “We appreciate each and every one of you for the impact you have made—and continue to make—on our Weld County community.”
The Workforce Development Board is business-led, with a majority of its 26 members representing the private sector and other members representing organized labor, community-based organizations, education, economic development organizations, other state agencies and individuals with disabilities. The board is charged with identifying regional workforce needs, developing and implementing systems in response to those needs and providing overall direction for Employment Services of Weld County.
The appointed board members are as follows: Scott James, Commissioner, Weld County Board of Commissioners; David Thompson, SVP Business Development, FMS Bank; Bonnie Babcock, President & CEO, Integrity CDL Academy; Kyle Majchrowski, Senior Project Executive, Banner Health; Sam Gluck, Vice President/Partner, APCO Electric; Amanda Ericson, Owner/Consultant, HRx Services; Greg Farris, Owner/Partner, Front Range Roofing Systems, LLC; Peggy Decker, HR/Labor Relations Consultant, Kaiser Permanente; Zach Huston, Training and Competency Manager, Noble Energy Inc.; Dwight Steele, Owner/Partner, Property Management; Jeff Sloan, Owner/Operator, Christian Brothers Automotive; Susan Ditson, Business Manager, Renewable Fiber, Inc.; Sylvia Robinson, Communications and HR Program Manager, TOLMAR, Inc.; Ryan Rose, Chief Information Office, Weld County Government; Geoff Herrig, Business Representative, UA 5 States Pipe Trades Association; Mathew Hortt, Director, High Plains Library District; Lisa Taylor, Executive Director, Immigrant and Refugee Center of Northern Colorado; Shayna Howell, Director, Aims Community College, Center for Workforce Development and Innovation; Elizabeth Barber, Executive Director, The Greeley Dream Team, Inc.; Rich Werner, President & CEO, Upstate Colorado; Elise Lowe-Vaughn, Director, CDLE Workforce Programs, Policy & Strategic Initiatives; and Stacy Evans, Regional Supervisor II, CDLE DVR.
Learn more about the Weld County Workforce Development Board at https://www.weldgov.com/departments/human_services/employment_services/workforce_development_board.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/new_public_safety_radio_tower_built_in_grover


New public safety radio tower built in GroverPosted on 01/27/2020Law enforcement and emergency responders now have improved radio signals thanks to a new communications tower in Grover.
The existing tower, which was 40 years old needed costly repairs. Therefore, a new tower was constructed and is now fully operational.
“The new Grover radio tower is invaluable for residents,” Weld County Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman said. “This tower greatly enhances our public safety communications, allowing emergency responders to better serve our residents.”
Weld County worked with federal agencies and the Pawnee Nation and Cheyenne Nation Indian Tribes on this project as the tower is located near an archeological site. The agencies determined that no environmental damage would occur by building the new stand-alone tower, which is anchored by three legs in the ground, at the existing radio tower site. Construction began in October 2019.
"We built this tower to strengthen and enhance our public safety communications for first responders and residents,” Weld County Director of Public Safety Communications Mike Wallace said. “After working extensively with multiple agencies to ensure this tower was constructed, we’re glad to see this important project come to fruition.”
The project is set to complete in April of this year with the removal of the old tower.
For more information on Public Safety Communications, visit https://www.weldgov.com/departments/public_safety_communications.



Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/county_updates_comprehensive_plan


County updates comprehensive planPosted on 01/24/2020Growth - the media writes about it, the state demographer predicts it, and we all feel it. So, the time is right to take a look at the Weld County Comprehensive Plan. This plan, which serves as the foundation for the policies the county uses when managing growth, is due to be updated per county code this year.
As part of the updating process, the Board of Commissioners would like the help of county residents – tell us what you think about growth in the unincorporated areas of the county. Where do you want to see growth occurring? Are the right things being put in the right places?  And because more people means more traffic – how do you rate the county’s roadway system, and where are you experiencing traffic congestion?

“Updating this plan is extremely important for the county,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “Attitudes toward growth and development change over time, and the board wants to ensure the plan takes those changes into account for the update. So come see us at the Colorado Farm Show January 28 through the 30th and give us your opinions.” 

The show will be held at Island Grove Regional Park and county representatives will be at Booth 9 (near the main entrance of the Exhibition Building) gathering input from residents.

“The county booth will have interactive ways for county residents to express their views about growth,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer, coordinator for the planning department this year. “Whether you live in a municipality or in the unincorporated area, your opinion and feedback are valuable. We all have an interest in how our county grows.”

Can’t make it to the Farm Show? There will be numerous opportunities for public input throughout the next six months across the county. Visit www.weld2020vision.com and watch our social media for more information including event dates and times as they are scheduled.

FACTS AND FIGURES:

The Comprehensive Plan was originally developed in 1974 and revised in 1987, 1995, 2002 and 2008.
According to the County Code, an overall review and update will be conducted at least every ten (10) years, or earlier as directed by the Board of County Commissioners.
2,570,711 – total number of acres in Weld County.
2,422,516 – total number of acres in unincorporated Weld County (including the 193,000 acres of the Pawnee National Grasslands)
314,250 - total population of Weld County as of July 2018
244,116 - total population of Weld County in 2008 (time of the last plan update)
699,836 – projected population of Weld County by the year 2050.

 
 
 


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/d_h_s_director_retires_after_more_than_forty_years


DHS Director retires after more than forty yearsPosted on 01/16/2020 Judy Griego, Weld County Department of Human Services (DHS) Director, officially retired after 44 years of employment with the county and 28 years of serving as the department director. During her recognition at Wednesday’s board meeting, Griego received a standing ovation from a room packed with DHS employees, family and friends.
Griego began her career with the county in May of 1975 as a Contracts and Grants officer for Head Start, Community Action, Senior Nutrition and Employment and Training programs. She worked her way up through many positions within DHS and was promoted to director of the department on May 1, 1991. As director, Griego oversaw the administration of programs such as public assistance, child and adult protection, child support, employment services and other community support programs.
In 1982, Weld County was selected to participate in a national pilot program for Employment and Training Services for individuals receiving public assistance. Griego was instrumental in the program, which ultimately led to the development and implementation of an innovative welfare reform program in Weld County.
“During my first year as commissioner in 2013, I had the honor of serving as the DHS coordinator,” said Commissioner Chair Mike Freeman. “I learned so much from Judy, and I so appreciate you and your staff for bringing me up to speed. You’ve earned so much respect here and throughout the state, and we’ll miss you tremendously.”
Under Griego’s leadership, a number of initiatives and approaches to better aid residents receiving public assistance were developed. She also served on numerous committees, including United Way and the North Colorado Health Alliance Board.
“Judy is a very special person and absolutely THE best Human Services Director in the state of Colorado,” said Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer, coordinator for DHS. “She has always been above reproach, putting the best interests of the county, children and families first. I have the utmost respect for you, and I consider myself dang lucky to have worked with you.”
“As the most recent—and sadly, last—commissioner coordinator trainee of Judy’s, I have full confidence in your replacement,” said Commissioner Scott James, referring to new DHS Director Jamie Ulrich. “You helped Weld County’s people with dignity, class and grace, and your legacy leaves a lasting impression on all of us.”
Griego smiled, reflecting on her four-decade-long career. “It’s been a pleasure and a privilege to work here, and what made it special was the people I worked with and the citizens who challenged me to do more,” she said. “Through the years, I grew up with you and your families. I appreciate the honor of being here for this long.”
For more information about the Department of Human Services, visit https://www.weldgov.com/departments/human_services.


Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/newsroom/2020_news/2020_chair__pro-_tem_and_coordinators


2020 Chair, Pro-Tem and CoordinatorsPosted on 01/06/2020As required by the Weld County Home Rule Charter, the Board of County Commissioners must elect a Chairman of the Board and Chairman Pro-Tem at the start of their first annual meeting each year. Today, the board elected Mike Freeman to serve as the Chairman for 2020 and Steve Moreno to serve as the Chairman Pro-Tem. The Chairman presides over meetings of the Board of Commissioners; the Pro-Tem presides over Commissioner meetings in the Chairman’s absence.

The board also appointed Commissioner Coordinators for each of the county’s major departments. According to the Charter, the Department of Finance, Purchasing and Personnel are to be coordinated by the Chairman of the board.

The 2020 coordinator roles are as follows:
Commissioner Mike Freeman: Departments of Finance Administration, Purchasing and Personnel (with Commissioner Steve Moreno as the assistant coordinator)

Commissioner Steve Moreno: Department of Health (with Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer as the assistant coordinator)

Commissioner Scott James: Department of Public Works (with Commissioner Steve Moreno as the assistant coordinator)

Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer: Departments of Human Services and Planning (with Commissioner Scott James as the assistant coordinator)

Appointments to advisory boards were also made today:
Commissioner Mike Freeman: 911 Emergency Telephone Service Authority Board; CJAC Criminal Justice Advisory Committee; Extension Advisory Council; Federal Mineral Leasing District Board of Directors; Greeley-Weld Airport Authority; Regional Communications Advisory Board.

Commissioner Steve Moreno: Weld County Bright Futures Board; Greeley-Weld Airport Authority; Island Grove Park Advisory Board (alternate member); CJAC Criminal Justice Advisory Committee; Pretrial Services Advisory Board; Upstate Colorado Economic Development Board; North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization (alternate member).

Commissioner Barbara Kirkmeyer: North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization.

Commissioner Scott James: 911 Emergency Telephone Service Authority Board; Weld County Bright Futures Board; Human Services Advisory Committee; Island Grove Park Advisory Board; Upstate Colorado Economic Development Board.

Consideration of Commissioner Sean Conway’s appointment to advisory boards has been continued until January 13. 



Scraping from https://www.weldgov.com/cms/One.aspx?portalId=169&pageId=96262


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


A PDF HERE


